ALL RIGHT, WELCOME TO
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR REGULAR
MEETING OF THE NRA PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION AND MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED MAX KELLY, WILL YOU
PLEASE CALL THE ROLL?
>> SURE.
LEE HERE TWICE FOR
HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE APRON'S HERE
DESH HERE MILNES HERE WHETHER
IT BE HERE ATOM'S HERE NOTING
THAT COMMISSIONER NORTON IS
ABSENT WITH ADVANCE NOTICE THIS
EVENING.
THANK YOU.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
AND SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY I AND YOUR
OPPOSED SEEING NONE THE MOTION
CARRIES THEY HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES OF OCTOBER
1ST TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WEATHER-BEATEN
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY I AM OPPOSED
SEEING NONE THE MOTION CARRIES.
NEXT UP A REPORT TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS.
>> I WILL START WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER DESH O.
I AM COMPLETELY UNPREPARED FOR
THIS I SAW YESTERDAY FOR
EXAMPLE THANK YOU THAT THE
CHILD CARE AND THE BELIEVE
BELIEVE PRIVATE SCHOOLS AS A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION WAS PASSED
YESTERDAY FIRST READING, FIRST
READING AND FIRST READING AND
IS IT I THINK THAT WE PASSED
THE THAT TINY LITTLE ORPHAN
THING A FEW MEETINGS AGO
REMEMBER THAT LITTLE BITTY
ORPHANED THING THAT NEEDED TO
BE WAS FOR A.
>> S TOWNSITE?
YES, IT WAS OK WE DID THAT
BECAUSE IT'S BEEN SINCE
OCTOBER 1ST THAT WE HAVEN'T HAD
A MEETING AND SO I COMPLETELY
BLANKED ON HOW FAR OK WHAT ELSE
WE MIGHT HAVE DONE THEN
PARASOMNIA THAT WAS LIKE POINT
ZERO OR ACRES OR SOMETHING
THAT'S EXTREMELY SMALL AND IF
YOU WOULD LIKE COUNCIL MEMBER I
COULD GO TO PLANNING GIVE ME A
CHAIR.
IN THE MEANTIME, LET'S GO TO
STAFF MANAGER REPORT.
>> WELL ONE THING I CAN TAKE
OFF OF MY DISHES PLATE IS TO
ADVISE THAT YOUR BYLAWS WERE
APPROVED BY COUNCIL ON NOVEMBER
7TH SO THIS WAS PART TWO OF TWO
PIECES REQUIRED TO ENSURE THAT
ONLY FIVE VOTES FIVE
AFFIRMATIVE VOTES WOULD BE
NEEDED TO PASS AN ITEM AT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TABLE.
>> SO THAT IS NOW IN EFFECT AND
YOU NO LONGER REQUIRE SIX
AFFIRMATIVE VOTES FOR ACTION
ITEMS OF YOUR COMPLIANCE DURING
COMMITTEE MEETING IS OCCURRING
TOMORROW EVENING AND THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE
WILL TAKE PLACE NEXT TUESDAY ON
ELEVEN TWENTY SIX PERFECT.
>> THANK YOU AND I WILL COME
BACK TO COUNCIL BRITISH IF
THERE IS ANYTHING TO ADD
WE DID
PASS THE TWEAKS THAT WE MADE TO
DC ONE WE MADE SEVERAL TWEAKS
TO TO ONE TO ACCOMMODATE THE
PARKING GARAGE AND BLOCK LIKE
YEA BLOCK LENGTH AND RECTIFY
THE CURB CUT ISSUE WHERE WE
WEREN'T ALLOWING ENOUGH
OF THOSE AND WE ALSO DID THE
EXCELLENT HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS
THING THAT WE DID.
THERE'S SOME STORMWATER THINGS
FOR THE HEIGHT EXCEPTION IS THE
BEST SO THAT IS OF ALLOWING
ADDITIONAL HEIGHT TO THE
BUILDING FOR THINGS THAT NEED
IT LIKE ELEVATOR OVERRUNS.
SO THESE THINGS ARE DETRACTING
FROM HABITABLE SPACE.
>> WE CHANGED THAT AND COUNCIL
APPROVED THAT.
THERE MAY HAVE BEEN A LITTLE
BIT MORE ON OCTOBER 21ST BUT
WE'LL JUST LEAVE THAT FOR THE
HISTORY BOOKS.
>> OK, PERFECT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
DO OTHER COMMISSIONERS OR
LIAISON HAVE ANYTHING TO REPORT
?
YEAH I'M SURE HAMMERSCHMIDT LRC
MET AT THE END OF OCTOBER.
I'M TRYING TO REMEMBER WHAT WE
TALKED ABOUT.
IT WAS AMENDMENTS TO THE DC WE
TALKED ABOUT OH ALLOWING A
DRIVEWAY TO BE A PARKING SPACE
IF IT DOES NOT GO UP TO AN
ACTUAL PARKING STRUCTURE.
WE TALKED ABOUT REDUCING
BARRIERS TO ESTABLISH AND
EXPAND TO COLLAPSE AND I FEEL
LIKE THERE WAS MORE OCCUPATIONS
AND UPDATED BICYCLE PARKING
STANDARDS WE DIDN'T TALK ABOUT
HOME OCCUPATIONS ALLOWING ETC.
OH
SORRY IT'S LONG NECESSARY
COMMERCIALLY AND IT'S IT'S AN
OCCUPATION.
>> WE TALKED ABOUT THOSE
THINGS.
>> THANK YOU.
>> ANY OTHER COMMITTEE
LIAISON'S HAVE ANYTHING TO
REPORT.
>> I SEE NONE WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS ARE INCLUDED IN
TODAY'S PACKETS.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT AND THEN THOSE REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS IS THE
ITEM RELATING TO HOME
OCCUPATIONS WILL HAVE NOT HAVE
A UNIQUE PUBLIC HEARING.
>> SO NOW IS A GOOD TIME TO
SPEAK ON THAT PARTICULAR ITEM
BEFORE IT IS DISCUSSED HOW TO
SPEAK REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE ON THE PHONE OR USE A
RAISED HAND FEATURE IN ZOOME
PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TWO FOR SEVEN AND THEN
MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THE PHONE NUMBER IF
AVAILABLE OR NAME FOR ZOOME
USERS AND YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT
WOULD SURE TURN TO SPEAK.
>> PLEASE DO MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISE
WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS PLEASE STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS WITH
THAT WELCOME TO I THINK LOOKS
LIKE STUDENTS.
ARE THERE ANY OF THOSE PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK HOME
OCCUPATION IF YOU ARE HERE FOR
THAT ONE THIS IS THE RIGHT TIME
TO SPEAK.
>> THIS IS LIKE MY CLASS.
>> OK WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO
MOVE ON TO IS THERE ANYONE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION REMOTELY?
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED AT
THIS TIME.
OK, I'M GOING TO GIVE IT A FEW
MORE MOMENTS EXTRA CREDIT IF
YOU HAVE A COMMENT.
NO, OK, WITH THAT WE WILL CLOSE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
OK, WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR
THE NEXT BUSINESS MEETING AND
WITH THAT WE WILL GO TO STAFF
FOR THE PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING ON TUESDAY DECEMBER
3RD.
TWENTY TWENTY FOR THE FIRST
OF TWO ITEMS IS DEXTER SEBALD
PARK REZONING THE PROPOSED
REZONING OF TWENTY FIVE SEVENTY
TWENTY FIVE SEVENTY SIX AND
TWENTY FIVE EIGHTY DEXTER ROAD
TO PUBLIC LAND.
THE LOTS WERE RECENTLY ACQUIRED
BY THE CITY FOR A PUBLIC PARK.
THE SECOND IS AN AMENDMENT TO
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE SECTION FIVE
POINT THREE POINT TWO
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE A
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO SECTION
FIVE POINT THREE POINT TWO TO
ALLOW ADMINISTRATOR APPROVAL
OF NEW INTERIOR HABITABLE SPACE
IN ADDITIONS TO NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURES IN RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS.
>> THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO SECTION EIGHT A
OF THE AGENDA UNFINISHED
BUSINESS THERE ARE NONE WHICH
TAKES US TO OUR FIRST REGULAR
BUSINESS.
I'M GOING TO INTRODUCE OUR
PETITION WHICH ONE ONE FOUR SIX
SOUTH MAPLE ROAD PD REZONING
AND SITE PLAN THE DC PLAN
OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT AND
PUDI SITE FROM ZONING FOR
ELEVEN FORTY SIX SOUTH MAPLE
ROAD.
>> THIS PROPOSED PROJECT
INCLUDES THE ANNEXATION OF THE
SITE FROM CYO TOWNSHIP AND
ZONING TO PUDI FOR MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL WITH ONE BUILDING
PROVIDING THIRTY NINE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS SAFTY
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL AND
I BELIEVE WE HAVE THE PETITION
PRESENTATION AND IN PERSON I
BELIEVE WE HAVE MISS WENDY
KADEE SAXEN AND AVALON HOUSING
AS WELL AS BRANDON HODGES AND
THE DEVELOPMENT ADVISORS FROM
TRIBE.
>> SO WITH THAT I BELIEVE WE
WILL GO TO PETITIONER
PRESENTATION MR. HERE BRIEFLY
WHEN IT GETS TO STEPH REMARKS
WE ALSO HAVE PLANNER SHEIKH ON
VIRTUALLY OK PERFECT THANK YOU
.
>> WELCOME.
THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE IT.
I REALLY APPRECIATE HAVING US
HERE TO GO OVER OUR HICKORY
FREEWAY THREE DEVELOPMENT.
WE ARE VERY EXCITED TO BE
BRINGING IT FORWARD TO PLANNING
COMMISSION.
I'M WENDY CURTIS JACKSON, THE
DIRECTOR OF REAL ESTATE
DEVELOPMENT AT AVALON HOUSING.
>> ALL RIGHT, QUICK AGENDA WHAT
WE'RE LOOKING TO COVER TODAY IN
OUR PRESENTATION.
>> SO I'LL JUST JUMP IN AND
GIVE YOU A LITTLE BRIEF
OVERVIEW OF AVALON, OUR MISSION
AND CURRENT ACTIVITIES.
I THINK MANY OF YOU ARE QUITE
FAMILIAR WITH US BUT OUR
MISSION IS TO BUILD HEALTHY,
SAFE AND INCLUSIVE SUPPORTIVE
HOUSING COMMUNITIES AS A LONG
TERM SOLUTION TO HOMELESSNESS
AND ESSENTIAL IS THE OFFERING
OF A NUMBER OF SERVICES SUPPORT
SERVICES AS WELL BEING
FLEXIBLE, VOLUNTARY SITE AND
NOT TIME LIMITED AND TAILORED
AROUND THE INDIVIDUAL NEEDS AND
HELPING TO SUCCESSFULLY
MAINTAIN HOUSING.
>> I WAS EXCITED TO BE LOOKING
AT BRINGING ANOTHER DEVELOPMENT
ONLINE.
WE HAVE TWO DEVELOPMENTS
CURRENTLY UNDER CONSTRUCTION IN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
FIFTY UNITS AT THE GROVE AT
VIRIDIAN BY ROAD NEAR UNITED
WAY AND SIXTY THREE UNITS DONE
BY TOWER AND KATHERINE IN
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE ANN ARBOR
HOUSING COMMISSION.
OUR GROWTH SHOULD BE COMPLETED
IN THE SUMMER OF THIS YEAR
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE IN DENVER
AND TWENTY TWENTY SIX FEBRUARY
AND BOTH OF THOSE ALSO
OF COURSE CAME THROUGH THIS
BODY AS WELL FOR APPROVALS AND
IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE WE BROUGHT
ON LINE SEVEN UNITS AT HICKORY
WAY APARTMENTS PHASES ONE AND
TWO RIGHT ADJACENT TO THE SITE
AND THAT PICTURE THERE IS
OF HICKORY WEIGH ONE AND THEN
JUST QUICKLY TO INTRODUCE OUR
DEVELOPMENT TEAM.
SO AVALON WILL BE THE DEVELOPER
ON OUR PROPERTY MANAGER
SPONSORED SERVICE PROVIDER.
I'M HERE OUR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
AARON COOPER IS ALSO HERE THE
WAY ON STAFF TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS ARE ON THE PHONE
ARCHITECTED FOSCO SHAFRAN
PAPPY'S SCOTT KELLY IS HERE
FROM THEM.
FUSCO HAS BEEN THE ARCHITECT
FOR NUMEROUS TAX CREDIT
DEVELOPMENTS INCLUDING A SITE
NEAR ANN ARBOR WHITE STAYTON
HENRY.
WE HAVE ALSO SELECTED OUR
GENERAL CONTRACTOR FOR THIS
DEVELOPMENT NOW O'NIEL
CONSTRUCTION AND THEY'RE THE
ONES THAT ARE ALSO DOING OUR
DUNBAR DEVELOPMENT DOWNTOWN,
OUR CIVIL ENGINEER WHO'S ALSO
HERE, KATHY KIND OF MAKING
ENGINEERING.
SHE'S BEEN A SILVERLINE BY OUR
CATHERINE THE ADHIKARI WAY ONE
AND TWO ET CETERA AND ALSO
OBVIOUSLY MANY OTHER
DEVELOPMENTS AROUND TOWN
ENVIRONMENT.
WE'RE WORKING WITH TWO FIRMS AS
TII AND TWO THEY'RE THE ONES
DOING OUR WETLAND STUFF THREE
STEP PROCESS AND EVERYONE'S HAD
THE GOOD FORTUNE OF HAVING A
NUMBER OF DEVELOPMENTS UNDERWAY
AT ONCE RIGHT.
WE'VE BROUGHT ON BRANDON HODGES
OF CHILD DEVELOPMENT ON BOARD
AS A DEVELOPMENT CONSULTANT TO
DO THE HEAVY LIFTING ON THIS.
AND SO I'M GOING TO TURN OVER
TO HIM TO GIVE SOME ADDITIONAL
DEVELOPMENT DETAILS.
>> THANK YOU, WENDY.
SO I WANTED TO TOUCH A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT THE EXISTING SITE SO
THE PROPERTY IS LOCATED IN CYO
TOWNSHIP CURRENTLY AS NECESSITY
THE ANNEXATION REQUEST IT'S
APPROXIMATELY ONE POINT ONE
FIVE ACRES AS YOU CAN SEE.
I THINK IT'S ALSO IMPORTANT TO
NOTE THERE ARE SOME
EFFICIENCIES WE'RE ALSO TRYING
TO DRIVE BECAUSE OF THE
PROXIMITY TO THE HICKORY WE
WENT TO DIRECTLY NORTH OF THE
SITE.
SO IN TERMS OF PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT SERVICE PROVISION,
IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT TO HAVE
SOME OF THESE SITES CO-LOCATED
JUST FOR EFFICIENCY PURPOSES.
WE DID SUBMIT FOR ANNEXATION.
IT WAS PRESENTED AT THE CITY
COUNCIL MEETING ON NOVEMBER
7TH.
SO THAT'S CURRENTLY UNDER
REVIEW AND UNDERWAY ALL SAID
AND DONE FROM A SCHEDULING
PERSPECTIVE WE ARE HOPING TO
KIND OF GET THROUGH THE
ANNEXATION OF THE SITE PLAN
APPROVAL PROCESS HOPEFULLY BY
THE END OF Q1 TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE THAT'S IMPORTANT FOR A
HANDFUL OF REASONS, PROBABLY
MORE IMPORTANTLY IS OUR PROJECT
IS A LOW INCOME HOUSING TAX
CREDIT PROJECT SO WE WILL WE
HAVE APPROVED SORRY APPLIED FOR
THE FIRST ROUND OF FUNDING IF
WE ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL IN
GETTING THE INITIAL ALLOCATION
OF TAX CREDITS THE NEXT FUNDING
CYCLE IS IN APRIL.
SO WE'RE TRYING TO HIT THAT
THAT MILESTONE.
>> ALSO OF NOTE, THE PROJECT IS
LOCATED ADJACENT TO WHAT IS
QUALIFIED AS A LOW QUALITY
WETLAND.
WE HAD A WETLAND DELINEATION
REPORT CONDUCTED BY ASTAR OUR
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTANT.
AS YOU CAN SEE IT'S A LITTLE
BIT OVER POINT ZERO EIGHT ACRES
SO NOTHING OF SIGNIFICANCE.
WE DO HAVE AN APPROVED WETLAND
PERMIT APPROVAL IS ON FILE WITH
YOU GUYS AS A PART OF OUR
FUNDING THOUGH WE ALSO HAVE TO
GO THROUGH AN EIGHT STEP
ANALYSIS TO BASICALLY THINK
THROUGH MITIGATION STRATEGIES
TO THE EXTENT THAT THEY'RE
POSSIBLE.
SO WE WANT TO BE GOOD STEWARDS
OF THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT BUT
WE'RE GOING THROUGH THAT
PROCESS RIGHT NOW WITH OUR
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTANT.
IT REALLY JUST THE
JUSTIFICATION FOR WHILE WE'RE
SEEKING THE PD WE LOOKED AT A
HANDFUL OF ZONING
CLASSIFICATIONS.
WE THINK THAT IT WILL REALLY
OPTIMALLY CREATE THE MOST
FLEXIBILITY FOR THE SITE THAT
WE'RE TRYING TO CREATE IN TERMS
OF THE USE IN TERMS OF THE
FLEXIBILITY FOR PARKING, FOR
THE LAYOUT OF THE BUILDING.
AND I THINK IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT BECAUSE THE CONTINUAL
USE OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING WE
LIKE THE FACT THAT THIS IS
GOING TO BE PERPETUALLY USED TO
ADDRESS THE HOUSING CONCERNS
THAT WE HAVE IN OUR COMMUNITY.
SO THIS IS JUST A COMPARISON TO
THE EXISTING ZONING BECAUSE
IT'S INSIDE A TOWNSHIP WE ARE
REQUESTING THE PUDI FOR THE NEW
ZONING AND THEN A LITTLE BIT
OF AN OVERVIEW ABOUT THE
DEVELOPMENT IN GENERAL WE WILL
BE HAVING THIRTY NINE UNITS ON
SITE, ALL ONE BEDROOM AS I
MENTIONED, THIS IS A LOW INCOME
HOUSING TAX CREDIT PROJECTS ARE
REALLY ADDRESSING DEEP
AFFORDABILITY WITHIN AND ARBOR
HOUSING COMMUNITY AT LEAST
FORTY PERCENT OF THE UNITS WILL
BE AT SIXTY PERCENT OF AREA
MEDIAN INCOME.
BUT REALISTICALLY A HUNDRED
PERCENT OF THOSE UNITS WILL
LIKELY BE AFFORDABLE AND THIS
WILL OFFER SUPPORTIVE SERVICES
AND WILL BE A SUPPORTIVE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
SO AT LEAST THIRTY FIVE PERCENT
OF THE UNITS WILL BE DESIGNATED
AS SUCH.
I WON'T GO THROUGH ALL OF THE
EXHAUSTIVE AMENITIES ON SITE
BUT I DO WANT TO CALL A FEW.
OBVIOUSLY WE'RE GOING TO BE
SHARING SERVICES WITH SOME
OF THE HICKORY WAY ONE AND TWO
BUILDINGS.
WE WILL ALSO HAVE SERVICE
PROVISION ON SITE DIRECTLY ON
OUR SITE DIRECTLY SOUTH.
THERE WILL BE RESIDENT BIKE
STORAGE OF SIX TYPE A FOUR TYPE
BE.
THERE WILL BE TWENTY UNITS
OF PARKING ON THE SITE AND THIS
HAS BEEN INFORMED BY A COUPLE
OF DIFFERENT FACTORS.
ONE JUST UTILIZATION ACROSS
AVALON'S PORTFOLIO.
WE FEEL LIKE THAT'S AN OPTIMAL
MIX.
IT'S ABOUT POINT FIVE PER UNIT
AND ALSO KEEPING IN LINE WITH
THE STANDARDS THAT WE WOULD
HAVE TO ADHERE TO WITH THE
MICHIGAN STATE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY THAT
FALLS DIRECTLY IN LINE WITH
THAT.
AND WE ALSO HAVE SECURED TWENTY
UNITS PROJECT BASED VOUCHERS
FROM THE HANOVER HOUSING
COMMISSION THAT JUST ADDS TO
THE REVENUE AND THE THE
OPERATIONAL CAPACITY FOR THE
PROJECT.
WE WILL HAVE A VARIETY OF EV
CHARGING STATIONS CAPABILITY ON
SITE CONTROL DOOR ACCESS
AND
THEN OUR ARCHITECT WILL ALSO
SPEAK TO THE SUSTAINABILITY AND
GREEN FEATURES THAT WE ARE
PROPOSING AND WITH THAT I WILL
TURN IT OVER TO FUSCO'S
SCHAEFER OFFICE WHO CAN TALK
ABOUT THE DESIGN OF THE
BUILDING AND OUR SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY.
PRESS FORWARD.
WHAT AM I DOING NOW?
OH THERE WE GO.
>> SUSTAINABILITY THE AVALON
HOUSING PROJECT FOR HICKORY
WEED THREE REPRESENTS A STEP IN
A COMMITMENT TO ADDRESS BOTH
THE URGENT NEED FOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND AS WELL AS BEING
ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE AND
PROVIDING A BUILDING THAT MEETS
THOSE REQUIREMENTS.
WE WILL BE GOING WITH AN
ENGBLOM SILVER NET ZERO BILL
PROGRAM THAT'S PART OF THE
REQUIREMENTS THE PROJECT WILL
FOCUS ON THE BUILDING BEING
SUPER INSULATED BUILDING
ENVELOPE SEALING THE BUILDING
AS WELL.
WE WILL HAVE CONSTANT TESTING
DONE TO MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE
MEETING THOSE REQUIREMENTS HIGH
PERFORMANCE WINDOWS MEETING
ENERGY STAR REQUIREMENTS NOT
ONLY CURRENT ENERGY STAR BUT
THE ENERGY STAR THAT'S POISED
TO BE APPROVED IN THE NEXT
COUPLE OF YEARS WHICH THOSE
STANDARDS ARE EVEN GOING TO BE
MORE MORE STRINGENT ENERGY
EFFICIENT FIXTURES AND
EQUIPMENT THROUGHOUT THE
APARTMENT.
THE AVERAGE APARTMENT SIZE WILL
BE ABOUT ROUGHLY SIX SQUARE
FEET.
BUT EVERYTHING WITHIN THE THE
APARTMENT WILL BE EFFICIENT.
WE WILL BE FOCUSING CREATING
ENERGY STAR RATED APPLIANCES
WHEREVER POSSIBLE.
EVERYTHING WILL BE ELECTRIC, NO
GAS IN TERMS OF THE APPLIANCES
AND OR MECHANICAL SYSTEMS
WITHIN THE BUILDING WE WILL BE
APPLYING THE COOL ROOF
TECHNOLOGIES ALONG WITH THAT AS
BRENDON TALKED ABOUT THE
CAPABILITY OF THE OF THE
PARKING SPACES THAT WE ALREADY
HAVE IN PLACE BASICALLY OUR
GOAL IS TO REDUCE THE ENERGY
BILLS FOR THE LANDLORD AND THE
TENANTS, ENHANCE THE AIR
QUALITY NOISE AND LIGHT
POLLUTION MITIGATION AND
CREATING AN OVERALL HEALTHIER
ENVIRONMENT FOR OUR RESIDENTS.
THE STRUCTURE ITSELF IS A FOUR
STORY STRUCTURE AS BRENDON
TALKED ABOUT IT.
THIRTY NINE UNITS ROUGHLY EACH
OF THE UNITS IS SIX HUNDRED AND
FIFTY SQUARE FEET OVER THE FOUR
STORIES THE EXTERIOR OF THE
BUILDING IS THE SITE PLAN YOU
CAN SEE WHERE THE TWENTY
PARKING SPACES ARE CURRENTLY
FOR STORIES.
HERE'S THE LAYOUT THE UNITS AND
THERE'S ON THE FIRST FOUR
THERE'S SOME COMMUNITY SPACES
AS WELL AS SERVICE RELATED
SERVICES FOR FOR THAT AVALON
PROVIDES A LOT OF THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE MECHANICAL
ELECTRICAL IN THE REAR OF THE
BUILDING.
>> HERE'S A EXTERIOR OF THE
BUILDING I KEEP GOING.
>> HELLO PLEASE PLEASE KEEP
GOING.
>> OK, WE'LL ADD A LITTLE BIT
MORE TIME.
OK, THANKS TO THE GOAL OF THE
EXTERIOR IS TO USE SUSTAINABLE
MATERIALS USING A LOT
OF MASONRY FIBER CEMENT SIDING
AND THEN OBVIOUSLY THE HIGH
EFFICIENCY WINDOWS THAT WE
TALKED ABOUT.
SO THAT'S PERFECT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THE
PRESENTATION.
>> WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO GO
OVER TO STAFF PRESENTATION
PLANNER KAWALSKY.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
PLANNING COMMISSION PETITIONERS
DID A GREAT JOB OF KIND
OF SUMMARIZING UP THE DETAILS
OF THE PROJECT.
SO I REALLY WANTED TO TOUCH ON
A COUPLE OF THE MAIN ITEMS HERE
BEFORE YOU TONIGHT.
AS YOU KNOW, THIS IS A
CODE WHICH REQUIRES TWO TWO
SEPARATE MOTIONS.
IT'S A PRETTY SIGHT PLAN AS
WELL AS A PRETTY ZONING.
SO THIS IS A PETITION THAT WILL
GO CITY COUNCIL.
>> I AFTER ACTION TONIGHT.
THERE IS ALSO A THIRD ACTION
THAT IS REQUIRED WITH THIS
PETITION THAT WAS MENTIONED AND
MENTIONED IN YOUR STAFF REPORT
WHICH WAS THE ANNEXATION
TYPICALLY IN THE PAST YOU GUYS
HAVE ALWAYS SEEN ANNEXATIONS
WITH THE ZONING AND THE SITE
PLAN.
THERE'S NO STATE OR CITY
CODE REQUIREMENT THAT HAPPEN IN
THIS CASE THE CITY'S GOAL
OF PRIORITIZING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AS WELL AS THE
PETITIONERS TIGHT DEADLINE THE
ANNEXATION WAS PERMITTED TO GO
FORWARD TO CITY COUNCIL WAS
EARLIER THIS MONTH WHICH WAS
APPROVED.
SO WHAT THAT ENABLED THAT
ALREADY BE SENT TO THE STATE SO
THAT THE STATE COULD START
WORKING ON THAT ANNEXATION
BECAUSE WHAT HAPPENS IN THE
STATE DOES NEED TO PROCESS IT
ON THEIR OWN.
SO TYPICALLY WHEN WE HAVE ALL
THREE ACTIONS TOGETHER AT
PLANNING COMMISSION THERE'S A
LITTLE BIT MORE OF DOWNTIME
BETWEEN WHEN WE GET THE
PETITION BACK FROM THE STATE
FOR ANNEXATION WHEN WE CAN
SCHEDULE FOR CITY COUNCIL.
SO HOPEFULLY THIS SAVES A
LITTLE BIT OF TIME.
SO THE TWO MOTIONS BEFORE YOU
TONIGHT ARE JUST FOR THE SITE
PLAN, THE BEAUTY PLAN AS WELL
AS A PRE ZONING AND AGAIN AS
WELL AS IN THE PAST IT WAS
MENTIONED ABOUT A WETLAND USE
PERMIT SOMETIMES IN THE PAST
YOU GUYS WOULD SEE THOSE AS
WELL.
THAT IS NOW STAFF THAT'S NOW A
STAFF ACTION.
SO STAFF HAS REVIEWED AND
APPROVED THE WETLAND USE PERMIT
THAT WAS APPLICABLE FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT HERE TONIGHT.
AGAIN, I REALLY WANT TO GO JUMP
TO THE ANALYSIS KIND OF IT WAS
TOUCHED ON AS WELL THAT REALLY
WHEN ANY PETITIONS BROUGHT
FORTH TO STAFF WE IDEALLY THE
PUDI IS NOT THE FIRST CHOICE WE
WOULD LIKE TO FIT IT INTO A
STANDARD ZONING DISTRICT IF
POSSIBLE.
SO YOU COULD SEE IN THE STAFF
REPORT AS I WAS IN THE
PRESENTATION IS THE CLOSEST
ZONING DISTRICT THAT WE WOULD
HAVE WOULD BE IN OUR FORTY
ZONING DISTRICT WHICH WORKS IN
A LOT OF WAYS ACTUALLY IT WORKS
IN ALMOST EVERY WAY EXCEPT FOR
SIDE SETBACK.
SO WHAT THE SO IT WORKS AS FAR
AS DENSITY AND OPEN SPACE
EVERYTHING ELSE BUT THE SET
ASIDE SETBACK WHICH IN THIS
CASE IS IN NORTHERN THE
NORTHERN SETBACK WHICH IS
ADJACENT TO THE WAY ONE AND TWO
DEVELOPMENT DUE TO THE LENGTH
OF THE BUILDING OUR CODE HAS A
REQUIREMENT THAT BUILDING ABOUT
FIFTY FEET HAVE AN ADDITIONAL
SIDE SET BACK SO WHAT THAT
WOULD DO IS THAT WOULD PUSH
THIS BUILDING TO A REQUIRED
TWENTY EIGHT FOOT SETBACK FROM
WHAT THEY HAVE NOW WHICH IS I
BELIEVE TEN AT THIS CASE THEY
HAVE SO THEY WOULD THEY WOULD
HAVE TO ADJUST THE BUILDING TO
ACCOMMODATE FOR THAT TWENTY
EIGHT FOOT SIDE SETBACK.
SO THAT WOULD SIGNIFICANTLY
EITHER ELIMINATE OR REDUCE THE
PARKING AND POSSIBLY THE UNIT
SIZE AS WELL.
>> SO THE OTHER THE OTHER ISSUE
WITH THE PD ANOTHER SO REALLY
THAT IS THE ONLY STRAIGHT UP
ZONING REASON FOR THAT.
THE PUGGY IS REQUESTED TONIGHT
.
ANOTHER WAY WHERE IT DID COME
IN HANDY THOUGH HOWEVER IS THE
VEHICULAR USE AREA.
>> THE BUFFER THAT'S REQUIRED
FROM THAT THAT IS REQUIRED A 15
FOOT WIDE BUFFER ADJACENT TO
LAND THAT'S RESIDENTIAL OR PARK
IN THIS CASE IT'S LAND ADJACENT
TO THE WEST AS WELL AS TO THE
SOUTH.
THEY DO MEET THE REQUIREMENT TO
THE SOUTH AND THEY PRETTY MUCH
MEET IT ON THE WEST EXCEPT FOR
A SMALL PORTION WHERE THE TURN
AROUND FOR SOLID WASTE AND
FIRAXIS NEEDED TO BUMP INTO
THAT THAT SET SET BACK IN AN
AREA WHICH REDUCES THE
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER IN
THAT AREA TO ABOUT SIX FEET FOR
ABOUT A WIDTH OF ABOUT TWENTY
FEET.
SO IT'S NOT THE ENTIRE LENGTH
OF THAT REAR AND AGAIN IT IS
ADJACENT DIRECTLY TO A PARK.
THEY'RE PROVIDING LANDSCAPING
WITHIN THAT SMALL 20 FOOT AREA.
BUT THE CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER IS ONLY SIX FEET WIDE IN
THAT CASE.
SO AGAIN THAT WOULD REQUIRE
EITHER A VARIANCE IF IT WAS A
STRAIGHT ZONING OR OBVIOUSLY
DONE THROUGH A PAD THAT IS
ALLOWED TO BE MODIFIED.
>> SO YEAH, THAT WAS AND AGAIN
IS ALSO SO OF COURSE IN GOING
FORWARD WITH THE DROUGHT WE
HAVE TO LOOK AT THE
JUSTIFICATIONS.
SO IN THIS CASE AS IS OBVIOUS,
I MEAN WE WE HAVE A 100 PERCENT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT AND
SOME A LARGE PORTION OF WHICH
MAY BE, YOU KNOW, VERY
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING AS WELL.
SO THAT'S CONSISTENT WITH THE
ADJACENT LAND USE.
IT'S CONSISTENT WITH ALL OF OUR
CITY POLICIES AND GOALS AS WELL
AS SOME OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL
FEATURES THEY'RE ADDING THERE
WITHIN THE PROJECT THAT STAFF
DOES FEEL AT THE JUSTIFICATION
FOR THIS IS WARRANTED.
I WANTED TO MAKE SURE IF I
COULD COVERED ANYTHING ELSE
REGARDING THE PD I DON'T BUT I
THINK THAT ABOUT COVERS ALL THE
SUMMARY INFORMATION I WANTED TO
HIT REGARDING THE PD FROM THE
ZONING AND STAFF OBVIOUSLY IS
RECOMMENDING APPROVAL OF BOTH
THE ZONING AS WELL AS THE
PROPERTY SITE PLAN.
>> THANK YOU.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
PLANNER KOWALSKI, WE'RE GOING
TO MOVE ON A PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ITEM.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF ON
THE PHONE OR USE THE PHRASE
HAND FEATURE IF YOU'RE ON ZOOME
FOR PHONE ACCESS, PLEASE CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
UNDER MEETING EDINA'S EIGHT
NINE NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY
STAFF WILL IDENTIFY CALLERS BY
THE LAST THREE MINUTES OF THE
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME UP FOR
RESUME USERS AND YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE
ENSURE YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA
AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISES
FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
COMMISSION?
>> YES, GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
>> MY NAME IS SCOTT ELLIS.
I AM A RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR
AND WARD FOR ON 12 OR SEVEN
BANTUS AND DRIVE AND I'M ALSO
ON STAFF AT AVALON HOUSING.
I'M THE DIRECTOR OF MISSION
ADVANCEMENT DATA FROM OUR
COMMUNITIES MOST RECENT
HOMELESSNESS POINT IN TIME
COUNT SHOWS THAT OVERALL
HOMELESSNESS HAS INCREASED IN
WASHTENAW COUNTY TWENTY PERCENT
SINCE TWENTY TWENTY AND FIFTY
PERCENT FOR FOLKS WHO ARE
CHRONICALLY HOMELESS.
CHRONIC HOMELESSNESS IS WHEN
FOLKS HAVE EXPERIENCED
HOMELESSNESS FOR AT LEAST A
YEAR OR REPEATEDLY OVER MANY
YEARS WHILE ALSO NAVIGATING A
DISABLING CONDITION AS A LOCAL
NONPROFIT, AVALON EXISTS TO
ADDRESS THIS CRISIS HEAD ON BY
CREATING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
LIKE THE HICKORY WEIGH THREE
DEVELOPMENT THAT IS BEING
PROPOSED TONIGHT AND THAT
HOUSING WITH WRAPAROUND SUPPORT
SERVICES THAT OUR NEIGHBORS
MANY OF WHOM ARE EXITING
HOMELESSNESS, OUR STAFF IN
PARTNERSHIP WITH OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS LIKE FOOD
GATHERERS AND PACKARD HEALTH
WHO PROVIDE SERVICES SUCH AS
FOOD ASSISTANCE, MENTAL HEALTH
AND CHRONIC DISEASE MANAGEMENT,
GENERAL SOCIAL WORK SERVICES,
SUBSTANCE USE AND
RECOVERY SERVICES AND IN-HOME
CLEANING ASSISTANCE JUST TO
NAME A PORTION OF WHAT WE DO
THIS TYPE OF PERMANENT
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING IS THE MOST
EFFECTIVE LONG TERM SOLUTION TO
HOMELESSNESS.
SOME OF OUR TENANTS TODAY ARE
FOLKS WHO MOVED INTO AVALON
HOUSING PROPERTIES BACK IN THE
90S WHEN WE FIRST STARTED.
>> IF ALLOWED TO MOVE FORWARD,
WAY THREE WILL BECOME MANY
PEOPLE'S PERMANENT HOME AND
REAL COMMUNITY TO GIVE MORE
CONTEXT, ACCORDING TO THE
NATIONAL ALLIANCE TO END
HOMELESSNESS, THE HOUSING FIRST
MODEL WHERE PEOPLE HAVE
EXPERIENCED HOMELESSNESS MOVED
DIRECTLY TO HOUSING, HAS AN
EIGHTY FOUR PERCENT SUCCESS
RATE OF WORKING WITH FOLKS TO
KEEP THEM HOUSED.
IT'S HIGHLY EFFECTIVE BUT AT
AVALON WE PAIR HOUSING FIRST
WITH ROBUST WRAPAROUND SUPPORT
SERVICES AND WE ARE ABLE TO
HELP OUR TENANTS REMAIN HOUSED
96 PERCENT OF THE TIME.
AND BECAUSE OF THAT AVALON IS A
NATIONAL MODEL WITHIN THE
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING SECTOR WITH
HARKAWAY THREE WE ARE EXCITED
TO BE ABLE TO OFFER MORE
OF THIS HIGHLY EFFECTIVE
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING THAT IS
DEEPLY NEEDED IN OUR COMMUNITY.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION OF THIS PROJECT.
>> THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANYBODY ELSE I WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME
?
HI THERE.
MY NAME IS GABE GROSSMAN.
I LIVE AT SEVEN TWENTY TWO
KINGSLEY IN WARD ONE.
I AM A STUDENT AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
I AM ALSO THE VICE PRESIDENT
OF OUTREACH AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN'S URBANISM CLUB
WHERE WE VOICE THE STUDENTS
BODY'S CONCERN FOR HOUSING,
TRANSPORTATION AND
ACCESSIBILITY.
I AM HERE TO EXPRESS SUPPORT
FOR THIS AND ALSO BRING LIGHT
HOW RIDICULOUS IT IS TO HAVE
SOMETHING A HOUSING PROJECT
NEED SO MUCH WHAT'S IT CALLED
PERMISSION TO FIT INTO THE AND
FOR IT TO ACTUALLY PASS HOW
MUCH RED TAPE THERE IS FOR THAT
.
I THINK THE FACT THAT YOU KNOW
ALL THESE HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS
DON'T MEET SMALL REQUIREMENTS
AND SETBACKS FOR OUR FOUR IS A
LITTLE BIT RIDICULOUS AND IT'S
VERY JUST INCENTIVIZING MORE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS AND I
WOULD LIKE TO SEE DEVELOPMENTS
LIKE THIS FIT IN MORE OFTEN TO
ZONING ORDINANCES SO THAT YEAH.
>> THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE SPEAKERS
WELCOME.
>> THANKS.
CHARLIE KENT GARBER TWENTY
EIGHT HAVE YOUR HOME COURT.
I'M ALSO HERE TO SPEAK IN
SUPPORT OF THIS PROJECT.
MR. ALLEN SAID YOU KNOW,
HOMELESSNESS IS VERY MUCH ON
THE RISE NOW BUT IT'S NOT A NEW
PROBLEM.
I TOOK PART IN THE PROTEST THAT
LED TO THE CREATION
OF ABBERLINE A LITTLE
HISTORICAL COLOR FOR MAYBE FOR
THE YOUNG PEOPLE IN THE
AUDIENCE AND IN NONCOMMISSIONED
THE BACK IN NINETEEN NINETY THE
CITY WAS PLANNING TO BUILD
PARKING STRUCTURE BEHIND
KLEIN'S DEPARTMENT STORE AT THE
CORNER OF WILLIAM AND S ASHLEY
AND THERE WERE THREE HOUSES AT
THE TIME ON THE SITE THAT WERE
SLATED FOR DEMOLITION AND THE
HOUSING ACTION COMMITTEE
RECRUITED SOME OF ITS HOMELESS
MEMBERS TO SQUAT IN TWO
OF THOSE HOUSES AND LEADING TO
A STANDOFF WITH THE CITY THAT
LASTED AN ENTIRE YEAR.
THE SQUATTERS FINALLY AGREED TO
MOVE OUT WHEN THE CITY AGREED
TO PRESERVE THESE HOMES, MOVING
THEM TO A DIFFERENT SITE AND
AVALON WAS SPUN OUT OF THE
SHELTER ASSOCIATION TO CREATE
LOW INCOME HOUSING.
I WAS PRESENT AT A BUNCH
RALLIES DURING THIS YEAR IN
SUPPORT OF THE SQUATTERS AND
THE PARKING STRUCTURE PLAN DIED
UNFORTUNATELY AND AVALON WAS
CREATED AND I THINK I IMAGINE I
THINK SOMETHING LIKE A THOUSAND
OVER A THOUSAND PEOPLE NOW LOW
INCOME TENANTS THAT IT SERVES
AND MORE ACTIVE THAN EVER IN
BUILDING.
THE ONLY QUESTION I HAVE ABOUT
THIS REALLY GREAT PROJECT IS
THE HEATING SYSTEM.
I'M GLAD TO HEAR JUST NOW THAT
THE BUILDING WILL BE ALL
ELECTRIC, NO GAS APPLIANCES.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS A QUESTION
THAT CAME UP WITH A MAY 7TH PD
MEETING AND COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT AT THE TIME ASKED
TO ASK ABOUT THE ALL ELECTRIC
STATUS OF THE BUILDING AND
THERE WAS A SUGGESTION FROM
STAFF AND FROM COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT THAT MUST BE
WRITTEN INTO THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGS.
I DON'T SEE IT IN THE DRAFT
YOU KNOW, I THINK IT'S NOT THAT
REGS.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S A QUESTION
YOU KNOW, I THINK IT'S NOT THAT
OF TRUST BUT IT WOULD BE GOOD
YOU KNOW, THERE'S A QUESTION
THAT THIS WOULD RUN WITH THE
OF TRUST BUT IT WOULD BE GOOD
PROPERTY IN CASE THE PROJECTS
THAT THIS WOULD RUN WITH THE
ARE NOT BUILT.
PROPERTY IN CASE THE PROJECTS
YOU KNOW, HONESTLY WE CAN'T BE
ARE NOT BUILT.
PUTTING IN FOSSIL FUEL
YOU KNOW, HONESTLY WE CAN'T BE
INFRASTRUCTURE IN ANY NEW
PUTTING IN FOSSIL FUEL
CONSTRUCTION IF WE'RE SERIOUS
INFRASTRUCTURE IN ANY NEW
ABOUT CON ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE
CONSTRUCTION IF WE'RE SERIOUS
.
ABOUT CON ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE
THE OTHER QUESTION I HAVE IS
.
THAT IN THE STATE PLAN DOCUMENT
THE OTHER QUESTION I HAVE IS
ON STREAM, YOU KNOW THERE IS IT
THAT IN THE STATE PLAN DOCUMENT
DOES REFER TO ALL ELECTRIC
ON STREAM, YOU KNOW THERE IS IT
SPACE CONDITIONING SYSTEMS BUT
DOES REFER TO ALL ELECTRIC
ALSO MENTIONS NINETY FIVE
SPACE CONDITIONING SYSTEMS BUT
PERCENT HIGH EFFICIENCY
ALSO MENTIONS NINETY FIVE
FURNACES WHICH CAN ONLY BE GAS.
PERCENT HIGH EFFICIENCY
I THINK SO IS THAT A TYPO?
FURNACES WHICH CAN ONLY BE GAS.
IS THAT AN ERROR?
I THINK SO IS THAT A TYPO?
THAT'S MY QUESTION ABOUT THAT.
IS THAT AN ERROR?
I JUST WANT TO BE SURE THAT
THAT'S MY QUESTION ABOUT THAT.
WE'RE ALL TALKING ABOUT THE
I JUST WANT TO BE SURE THAT
SAME THING HERE.
WE'RE ALL TALKING ABOUT THE
>> I COMMEND AVALON FOR DOING
SAME THING HERE.
SO MUCH TO COMBINE
>> I COMMEND AVALON FOR DOING
SUSTAINABILITY WITH
SO MUCH TO COMBINE
AFFORDABILITY.
SUSTAINABILITY WITH
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THE
AFFORDABILITY.
CATHERINE ANVARI VERDIAN
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THE
PROJECTS WILL ALSO BE ALL
CATHERINE ANVARI VERDIAN
ELECTRIC.
PROJECTS WILL ALSO BE ALL
THEY'RE SETTING A GREAT EXAMPLE
ELECTRIC.
FOR OTHER DEVELOPERS THROUGHOUT
THEY'RE SETTING A GREAT EXAMPLE
THE CITY.
FOR OTHER DEVELOPERS THROUGHOUT
>> SO THANK YOU.
THE CITY.
THANK YOU MR. GARBER.
>> SO THANK YOU.
ANY OTHERS THAT WOULD LIKE TO
THANK YOU MR. GARBER.
SPEAK AT THIS TIME
?
DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS?
WE DO.
AMANDA WASHTENAW HOUSING
ALLIANCE YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
HIGH PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME OK?
THANKS SO CAN AMANDA CARLYLE
CALLING IN.
I LIVE AT SIXTEEN NINETEEN
WALTHAM DRIVE IN ANN ARBOR
WHICH IS APPROXIMATELY POINT
EIGHT MILES FROM THE PROJECT.
I'M ALSO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
OF THE WASHTENAW HOUSING
ALLIANCE WHICH IS A COALITION
OF OVER TWENTY FIVE NONPROFIT
GOVERNMENT PARTNERS WORKING TO
END HOMELESSNESS AND EXPAND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING OPTIONS IN
WASHTENAW COUNTY AND AVALON IS
ONE OF OUR MEMBER AGENCIES I'M
CALLING IN TO SUPPORT PROVING
THE HICKORY WAY THREE PROJECT
POD REZONING AND FLIGHT PLAN WE
KNOW FROM A TWENTY FIFTEEN
COUNTY AFFORDABLE HOUSING PLAN
THAT WITHIN WASHTENAW COUNTY WE
NEED TO ADD OVER THREE THOUSAND
UNITS OF AFFORDABLE NON STUDENT
RENTALS AND THIS PROJECT WILL
ADD THIRTY NINE MORE UNITS
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING TO OUR
COMMUNITY AND EXPAND TO
AVALON'S FREEWAY COMPLEX WHICH
TRULY DOES PROVIDE CRITICAL
ONSITE STAFFING.
TWENTY FOUR SEVEN SUPPORTIVE
HOUSING CASE MANAGEMENT
SERVICES THAT HELP PEOPLE
MAINTAIN OR HAVE HOUSING.
AVALON HAS A PROVEN TRACK
RECORD OF SUCCESS IN THE
COMMUNITY AND THE HICKORY WAY
ONE AND TWO PROPERTIES HAVE
BEEN GREAT ADDITIONS TO OUR
COMMUNITY ALREADY.
WHAT I AM MOST THRILLED ABOUT
IS THE DEEP TARGETING OF THE
AFFORDABILITY FOR THIS PROJECT
INCLUDING A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER
OF UNITS DEDICATED TO PEOPLE
EARNING THIRTY PERCENT OF THE
AREA MEDIAN INCOME WHICH MEANS
THOSE WHO OTHERWISE WOULD NOT
BE ABLE TO FIND HOUSING
ANYWHERE IN ANN ARBOR OR
SURROUNDING COMMUNITIES WILL BE
ABLE TO DO SO IN THIS PROJECT.
SO THANK YOU IN ADVANCE FOR
SUPPORTING THIS PROJECT.
>> PD AND FLIGHTPLAN, THANK YOU
.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS?
>> THERE ARE NO FURTHER HANDS
RAISED.
OK, GIVE IT MORE SECONDS.
OK WITH THAT WE'LL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
I'M GOING TO READ THE PROPOSED
MOTIONS WHICH IS THAT THE ANN
ARBOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVED THE
ELEVEN FORTY SIX SOUTH MAPLE
ROAD PLAN UNIT DEVELOPMENT
ZONING DISTRICT AND
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
SUBJECT TO THE NECESSARY
REVISIONS AS DIRECTED BY THE
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION AND
THE SECOND MOTION WHICH WILL
HERE TOGETHER IS AT THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVED THE ELEVEN FORTY SIX
SOUTH MAPLE ROAD PLAN UNIT
DEVELOPMENT SITE PLAN MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WEIS AND SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION WHO WOULD
LIKE TO KICK US OFF.
COMMISSIONER MILLS, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
I DO MY NORMAL THING
OF COMPARING WHAT WE SEE AS I
PLAN TO WHAT ARE IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS AND IT'S REAL
CLOSE I THINK YOU KNOW AND IN
TERMS OF CONSISTENCY WITH
WHAT'S IN THE R FOR E AND THE I
THINK WHAT'S ALLOWED IS TEN
FEET FROM THE SIDES THAT BACK
AND THIS IS IT'S SHOWING
THIRTEEN SO LIKE LIKE I THINK
WE GOT THAT ALL EYES NO WE DOT
I'S AND CROSS T'S SO I THINK
THAT THAT IS GREAT IF THIS
PROJECT DOESN'T GET BUILT AND
THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGS CONTINUE
ON IN THIS SITE WE WOULD HAVE
AT LEAST THIRTY NINE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING UNITS BUT IT'S NOT
CAPPED AT THAT.
BUT WHAT IS CAPPED IT'S PRETTY
WOULD BE PRETTY DARN CLOSE IS
THE OPEN SPACE LIKE WE KNOW
WE'RE GOING TO GET WHAT'S SHOWN
ON THE PLAN IS FORTY TWO
PERCENT OPEN SPACE THEY'RE
REQUIRED TO HAVE FORTY SO IT'S
NOT LIKE WE COULD GET TONS
PARKING INSTEAD, YOU KNOW SO I
THINK THAT ALL OF THAT MAKES
SENSE.
I'M CURIOUS ABOUT THE HEATING
HOW WHAT THE SPACE CONDITIONING
WHAT YOU'RE ANTICIPATING FOR
THAT HERE WE ARE LOOKING TO
ELECTRIC HEAT.
>> SO THE FURNACE THING WAS
JUST A CARRYOVER HERE.
>> I WILL SAY THOUGH WITH THE
ELEVATOR WE ARE LOOKING AT A
GENERATOR OUT THERE.
SO I THINK SIMILAR TO WHAT
WE'VE ALTHOUGH THAT WOULD BE
GAS POWERED THE GENERATOR YOU
KNOW, MAYBE FUTURE THINGS BUT
JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT
THAT WAS WAS CLEAR.
I THINK WE'D BE LOOKING AT AIR
SOURCE HEAT PUMPS.
IT'S SIMILAR TO WHAT WHAT WE DO
THE UNITS AT HICKORY WEIGH ONE
IN TWO.
>> YEAH OK, I'M GOING TO ASK UM
WOULD YOU BE AMENABLE TO
INCLUDING WORK A REQUIREMENT
FOR ALL ELECTRIC IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS OR I MEAN
I'LL ASK IT'S ALWAYS NICE TO
HAVE FLEXIBILITY JUST IN CASE
BUT IF THE COMMISSION IS
WANTING TO PUT THAT IN THERE
AGAIN DEFINITELY WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF THE GENERATOR, YOU
KNOW, WE WOULD BE OPEN TO THAT
.
>> SO OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMENTS, COMMISSIONER WHITE
JUST A COUPLE ONE THANKS FOR
BRINGING THE PROJECT.
I'M SORRY YOU HAVE TO DO IT AS
A PD I ECHO THE SENTIMENT
OF THE URBANISM CLUB.
I THINK THIS IS REALLY
RIDICULOUS BECAUSE OF HOW THE
UDC IS STRUCTURED AROUND THOSE
SET BACKS.
SO THIS GOES TO MR. KAWALSKY AS
WE ARE WORKING ON THE PLAN.
I KNOW WE ARE GOING TO REDUCE
SOME OF OUR ZONING DISTRICTS
DOWN FROM THIRTY TWO TO
POTENTIALLY FOR THIS WOULD
STILL RIDE IN BECAUSE IT'S
ACTUALLY THE UDC AND IT'S SET
UP AROUND THE SITE NOT
NECESSARILY A PARTICULAR ZONING
DISTRICT.
SO HOW DO WE AVOID THIS IN THE
FUTURE?
GOOD QUESTION.
I MEAN WE WOULD BASICALLY HAVE
TO DO A ZONING AMENDMENT SO
YOU'RE RIGHT IT'S IN THE UDC
IT'S AND I BELIEVE IT'S IN ALL
THE FOUR SIDES SET BACKS THAT
THE ADDITIONAL IT'S THERE'S
SOMETHING FOR ADDITIONAL
BUILDING LENGTH AS WELL AS
ADDITIONAL BUILDING HEIGHT.
SO EITHER ONE OF THOSE COULD BE
FLEXED.
SO YOU'RE RIGHT.
I MEAN I THINK THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT OBVIOUSLY IS
KIND OF A SMALLER ISSUE WHICH
WASN'T TOUCHED ON REALLY IN THE
PLANNING PROCESS.
>> BUT IT COULD BE IT COULD AT
THE DIRECTION OF PLANNING
COMMISSION BE SOMETHING WE
WOULD INVESTIGATE.
I DON'T KNOW THE RAMIFICATIONS
OF , YOU KNOW, WHETHER THAT
WOULD NECESSARILY BE GOOD OR
BAD.
BUT I MEAN IT WOULD BE
SOMETHING THAT WOULD JUST WOULD
HAVE TO BE THROUGH A
CODE AMENDMENT PROCESS.
>> OK, AND THEN FOR OUR I GUESS
WORKING PLAN, I THINK I'VE
RAISED THIS ISSUE BEFORE THE
FIRST TIME IT CAME UP AND WE'VE
HAD AT LEAST TWO IF NOT THREE
DEVELOPMENTS THAT RAN INTO
SOMETHING SMALL LIKE THIS.
I THINK IT WAS THE COURT COURT.
YES.
MARY COURT WAS ANOTHER ONE
OF THESE CASES SO JUST
DAYLIGHTING THAT AGAIN WAS
LOOKING AT THE PUBLIC COMMENTS
AND SO THIS IS FOR THE
PETITIONER.
THE FIRST THING I WANTED TO ASK
YOU ALL ABOUT WELL EXCUSE ME
LET ME START WITH STAFF AND
THEN I'LL ASK YOU SO A PUBLIC
COMMENT ARE CALLED IN AND ASKED
OR WROTE IN ABOUT UTILITY
CAPACITY.
SO WITH THIS NEW DEVELOPMENT
GOING IN, ARE THERE ALL OF THAT
WOULD BE ADDRESSED WITH THIS
DEVELOPMENT, RIGHT?
THAT'S CORRECT.
SO THERE'S NOT GOING TO BE ANY
DRAG ON POWER OR WATER.
>> I MEAN WE HAVEN'T I KNOW
WATER SANITARY ALL THAT'S
LOOKED AT THROUGH THE CITY
PLANNING PROCESS.
WE DO INCLUDE DTI AND ROUTING
THROUGH OUR SITE PLANS NOW WE
DON'T NECESSARILY AT THE
COMMENTS BACK FROM THEM ON THAT
BUT WE HAVEN'T BEEN AWARE
OF ANY ISSUES IN THIS AREA
WHICH IS A LOT OF TIMES WE ARE
IF THERE'S NEW DEVELOPMENTS
THAT PEOPLE SAY THAT THEY HAVE
POWER ISSUES SO YEAH, BUT THAT
WOULD BE KIND OF A SEPARATE
ISSUE.
WE DON'T REALLY GO ON A LOT
OF DETAIL ON THAT NECESSARILY
THE SITE PLAN, OK, AND THEN WE
DIDN'T NEED TO DO A TRAFFIC UH
,STUDY HERE BECAUSE THERE WAS
A BASIC TRAFFIC ANALYSIS DONE
CORRECT.
SO THERE WASN'T GOING TO BE A
SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON TRAFFIC
AND THEN TO THE PETITIONER SO
THIS PUBLIC COMMENTARY WAS
CONCERNED ABOUT TWO THINGS IN
ADDITION TO THE TWO THAT I
BROUGHT UP, ONE NOTE WAS WHAT
THEY PERCEIVED AS AN INCREASE
OF NONRESIDENT DUMPSTER DIVING
IN AND ON THEIR PROPERTY SO
THEY WOULD BE ACROSS THE STREET
FROM YOUR DEVELOPMENT OR
PANHANDLED WITH RESIDENCE.
AND SO I JUST WONDERED IF YOU
WANTED TO SPEAK TO HOW YOUR
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES WORK, WHAT
SORT INTERACTIONS THAT YOU HAVE
WITH YOUR RESIDENCE AS WELL AS
WITH NEIGHBORS AS A WAY TO
ADDRESS THAT IF THAT'S OK.
>> YES, WHOEVER ON THE TEAM
AND
I JUST THINK IT'S A HELPFUL
THING FOR YOU TO TALK TO THE
PUBLIC ABOUT HOW YOU INTERACT
WITH YOUR RESIDENCE OR
NEIGHBORS EVEN ACROSS THAT HOW
YOU ARE DOING.
>> BUT YEAH, TALK TO THE
QUESTION I WOULD SAY I'M NOT
GOING TO SAY IT'S AN ISSUE BUT
WE HAVE A REALLY ROBUST SERVICE
DEPARTMENT AND OUR SERVICE
DEPARTMENT WORKS REALLY CLOSELY
WITH OUR RESIDENTS AND SO WE
DON'T REALLY SEE THAT AT OUR
PROPERTIES.
YOU WELL I SAY IT DOESN'T
EXIST.
I WON'T GO AS FAR AS SAY THAT
BUT WE PARTNER WITH MANY
PARTNERS WHETHER IT'S HOUSING
AT HOME OR WHAT HAVE YOU LIKE I
THINK ONE OF OUR OUR DIRECTOR
SAID FOOD PANTRY SO WE DON'T
REALLY SEE OUR RESIDENTS KIND
OF PANHANDLING AND STANDING OUT
.
I THINK THEY REALLY RESPECT OUR
PROPERTIES.
I THINK THEY REALLY WANT THE
PROPERTIES TO LOOK APART AND
LOOK A PART OF THE COMMUNITY WE
DO HAVE ONE OF OUR RESIDENTS
HERE THAT COULD REALLY SPEAK
TOWARDS ACTUALLY LIVES IN THE
HIKARI WAY WANTED TO REALLY
SPEAK TOWARDS THE UPKEEP IN THE
PRIDE THAT THE RESIDENTS HAVE.
SO I DON'T I DON'T REALLY SEE
KNOW WHEN I'M OUT IN THE
PROPERTIES AND TALKING TO OUR
STAFF.
I DON'T REALLY SEE THAT AS AN
ISSUE BUT I WOULDN'T GO AS FAR
AS TO SAY IT DOESN'T HAPPEN.
BUT AGAIN, I HAVE TO GIVE
CREDIT TO OUR SERVICE STAFF
BECAUSE THEY REALLY MAKE SURE
THAT THE RESIDENTS HAVE WHAT
THEY NEED, YOU KNOW, SO
SUPPORT.
>> YES.
IS THERE A WAY FOR ADJACENT
RESIDENTS TO REACH OUT TO
AVALON IF THEY HAVE CONCERNS?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
HOW DO THEY DO THAT?
YES.
SO NOT AT THE SPECIFIC PROPERTY
BUT WE ALSO HAVE A GENERAL NO
SORRY AT ALL.
>> IT'S OK BUT WE HAVE A
GENERAL NUMBER THAT FOLKS CAN
CALL AND EVEN MYSELF AS
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR I'M SORRY I
DIDN'T I DIDN'T SAY I'M AN
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AARON
COOPER.
I'M ALWAYS OPEN TO TALKING TO
RESIDENTS, NONRESIDENTS, THOSE
IN THE COMMUNITY IF THERE ARE
CONCERNS.
BUT AGAIN, USUALLY WE AT OUR
HICKORY WEIGH PROPERTY NOW WE
HAVE A 24/7 STAFF AND NOT THAT,
YOU KNOW, FOLKS WILL REACH OUT
IN THE EVENING BUT WE TRY TO
MAKE SURE WE HAVE THE PROPERTY
STAFF.
WELL, AGAIN, WE DO HAVE A
GENERAL NUMBER.
>> THANK YOU, SCOTT THAT I WILL
READ OUT TO EVERYONE.
IT'S SEVEN THREE FOUR SIX SIX
THREE FIVE EIGHT FIVE EIGHT OK,
I'LL SAY IT AGAIN SEVEN THREE
FOUR SIX SIX THREE FIVE EIGHT
FIVE AND I'M SURE WE GET
SOMEONE OR THEY CAN EVEN
EXPRESS MYSELF.
>> AARON COOPER OK, THANK YOU.
ONE MORE QUESTION.
>> SURE.
SO CAN YOU ALL REMIND ME WHEN
THE FIRST HICKORY WAY AND TWO
WERE DEVELOPED WHAT YEARS AND
WHEN YOU WELCOME PRESIDENTS?
>> YEAH.
SO WE STARTED BUILDING THEM IN
TWENTY NINETEEN IS WHEN WE
CLOSED AND HICKORY WILL RUN AND
THEN TOO SHORTLY THEREAFTER AND
THEN APRIL TWENTY TWENTY ONE
FRANKLY WE ONE AND I THINK
NOVEMBER TWENTY TWENTY ONE FOR
EVERY WAY TO WAS WHEN FOLKS
STARTED MOVING IN AND THEN JUST
THIS IS JUST A COMMENT THE LAST
COMMENT IN THIS PUBLIC COMMENT
WAS THE NEIGHBOR WAS CONCERNED
ABOUT THE PRESENCE
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING HAVING A
NEGATIVE IMPACT ON THEIR
PROPERTY VALUES AND JUST FOR
THE RECORD IN PARTICULAR THIS
PROPERTY INCREASED IN VALUE
OVER TWENTY PERCENT TO YOU
DEVELOPED YOUR FIRST ONE.
SO IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE YOU'RE
HAVING THAT KIND OF IMPACT ON
THE COMMUNITY.
AND AGAIN, WE'RE GRATEFUL FOR
THE TRUTH THAT YOU'RE BRINGING
THIS DEVELOPMENT AND I WISH IT
WAS AS THE URBANIST CLUB SAID,
A LESS ONEROUS PROCESS FOR YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
OF COMMENTS THOUGHTS OK, DOES
THAT I THINK OF EVERYTHING THAT
WE WANTED TO COVER .
THANK YOU FOR ADDRESSING THE
PUBLIC COMMENTS FOR THE
STUDENTS THAT ARE HERE.
THE POD IS WHEN IT DOESN'T FIT
ANY OF THE OTHER ZONING
CATEGORIES SO HAS TO MEET A
SPECIFIC TYPE OF REQUIREMENTS
AND THE THINGS THAT WE'RE GOING
TO LOOK AT IS INNOVATION AND
ANDREW'S VARIETY AND DESIGN
ECONOMY AND EFFICIENCY OF LAND
USE PUT THE PROVISION OF OPEN
SPACE AGAIN.
FORTY TWO PERCENT ARE BEING
PRESERVED FOR OPEN SPACE AND
THEN PRESERVATION PROTECTION
OF NATURAL FEATURES WHICH WE
SAW WITH THE WETLAND
COORDINATIONS AS WELL AS
EXPANSION OF SUPPLY
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
SO IT REALLY DOES MEET MOST
OF THE CHARACTERISTICS POINT
FIVE IN TERMS OF SPACES PER
UNIT.
SO AGAIN FROM CONNECTIVITY
THROUGH BICHE I THINK THE BIKE
SCORE HERE IS PRETTY WELL I DO
DRIVE AND THEN TRAVEL ON THIS
QUARTER QUITE FREQUENTLY SO ALL
OF THAT SAID I WOULD BE IN
SUPPORT OF THIS.
THE ONLY THING THAT I WANT TO
ASK IS WHETHER SOMEBODY WANTS
TO MAKE A MOTION TO ADD THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS BUT
THAT BEING SAID, I'M ALSO OPEN
TO JUST KEEPING IT FLEXIBLE SO
WITH THAT I BELIEVE WE'RE READY
FOR A ROLL ALTHOUGH
I'M SORRY,
DID YOU TAKE BOTH MOTIONS
TOGETHER?
>> YES, WE TOOK ACTION
TOGETHER.
YEP.
AND THE TWO MOTIONS AS
PRESENTED LEE YES.
>> WISCH YES.
HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
ABRAN YES.
ADAMS YES.
>> WHETHER IT BE YES OR YES
THIS YES.
>> THAT CARRIES GREAT THANK YOU
KOBUK YOU ARE RIGHT FIVE
DIFFERENT STEPS FOR PRE PUDI
YES APPLICATIONS CAN BE PRETTY
ONEROUS SO ALL RIGHT WITH THAT
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO OTHER
BUSINESS THE SECTION TEN A THIS
IS ACCU HOME OCCUPATIONS THIS
IS ACCESSORY COMMERCIAL UNITS
REPORT AND HOME OCCUPATIONS
.
THIS REPORT RESPONDS TO COUNCIL
RESOLUTION NUMBER TWO FOUR
THREE SIX EIGHT BY REVIEWING
REGULATIONS FOR HOME
OCCUPATIONS IN ANN ARBOR AND
COMPARING THEM TO OTHER
JURISDICTIONS AS WELL AS
EXPLORES THE TOPIC OF ACCESSORY
COMMERCIAL UNITS ACRES AND HOW
COULD THEY COULD BE INTEGRATED
INTO THE CITY'S RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS WITH THAT WE ARE
GOING TO MOVE TO STAFF
PRESENTATION WITH DEPUTY
PLANNING MANAGER KELLY.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I HAVE THE PLEASURE OF TALKING
ABOUT THIS TOPIC TODAY WHICH IS
PRETTY INTERESTING.
SO A COUPLE OF THINGS.
SOME OCCUPATIONS AND THEN
ACCESSORY COMMERCIAL UNITS AND
SOME OTHER CONNECTED TOPICS ARE
DISCUSSED AT THE END OF THE
REPORT THAT IS IN TODAY'S
PACKET.
THIS DOES RESPOND TO COUNCIL
RESOLUTION AH TWENTY FOUR DASH
THREE SIX EIGHT AMONG OTHER
ITEMS IN THE RESOLVE CLAUSES
THEY REQUESTED THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION CONSIDER
AND PROPOSE RECOMMENDED
ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS TO THE
CITY'S OCCUPATION ORDINANCE FOR
THE PURPOSE OF ALLOWING MORE
FLEXIBILITY IN THE CITY'S
REQUIREMENTS REGARDING HOME
OCCUPATIONS INCLUDING ACRES IN
THE CITY'S RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS.
AND SO THIS EVENING WE WILL
DISCUSS HOW OCCUPATIONS IN ANN
ARBOR AND HOW THEY COMPARE TO
SOME OTHER JURISDICTIONS THAT
YOU WILL SEE IN THE REPORT AND
IN THIS PRESENTATION AND ALSO
DISCUSS ACCESSORY COMMERCIAL
UNITS AND THEIR POTENTIAL IN
ANN ARBOR AS WELL AS SOME NEXT
STEPS FORWARD FOR EACH.
>> I THOUGHT IT WOULD BE
HELPFUL TO INCLUDE SOME
DEFINITIONS WHICH I ALSO SHARED
WITH THE ORDINANCE PROVISIONS
COMMITTEE, THE FIRST OF WHICH
IS A HOME OCCUPATION.
ALL OF THESE ARE CURRENT
DEFINITIONS THAT ARE IN YOUR
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE .
SO HOME OCCUPATION IS AN
ACCESSORY USE OF A NON
RESIDENTIAL NATURE THAT IS
PERFORMED WITHIN A DWELLING
UNIT OR WITHIN AN ACCESSORY
BUILDING AND CONDUCTED BY
MEMBER MEMBERS OF THE FAMILY
RESIDING IN THE DWELLING UNIT
AND NOT MORE THAN ONE
ADDITIONAL EMPLOYEE AND
ACCESSORY USE IS A LANDY'S THAT
IS SUBORDINATE IN USE AREA OR
PURPOSE TO A PRINCIPAL LANDY'S
THE SAME LOT IN SERVING A
PURPOSE NATURALLY AND NORMALLY
INCIDENTAL TO SUCH PRINCIPAL
LAND USE AND AN ACCESSORY
BUILDING IS A BUILDING THAT IS
SUBORDINATE IN USE AREA AND
PURPOSE TO THE PRINCIPAL USE
AND PRINCIPAL BUILDING IN WHICH
AN ACCESSORY IS IS CONTAINED OR
CONDUCTED ON THE ACCESSORY
BUILDINGS CAN BE ATTACHED OR
DETACHED TO A PRINCIPAL
BUILDING WHEN ATTACHED THE
ACCESSORY BUILDING SHALL BE
CONSIDERED PART OF THE
PRINCIPAL BUILDING FOR PURPOSES
OF I WANT TO DWELL ON THIS
SLIDE FOR A LITTLE BIT.
THIS IS ON PAGE TWO OF THE
PLANNING REPORT AND THIS IS MY
BEST ATTEMPT AS I'VE HAD THIS
TASK TO CONSIDER WHAT IS THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A HOME
OCCUPATION AND AN ACCESSORY
COMMERCIAL UNIT.
>> MY BEST ATTEMPT AT
DISTINGUISHING THEM SO HOW I
OCCUPATIONS ARE NOT NECESSARILY
MEANT TO BE SEEN.
IT'S A WAY TO ADD FLEXIBILITY
TO YOUR PROPERTY.
IT'S PRIMARILY FOR THE PEOPLE
WHO LIVE THERE AND IT IS LOW IN
LOW IMPACT AND THAT IS DEFINED
BY JURISDICTIONS ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY IN DIFFERENT WAYS BUT
IT CAN MEAN LESS VEHICULAR
TRIPS, LESS PEOPLE ARE KNOW
PEOPLE COMING TO THE HOMELESS,
PEOPLE WHO ARE WORKING THERE.
IT'S TYPICALLY NOT A PHYSICAL
CHANGE.
IT'S A ADDITION OF ANOTHER USE
AND THERE'S NOT A LOT
OF EXTERNAL EVIDENCE THAT THAT
USES THERE.
THERE'S NOT A WIDE AMOUNT
OF SIGNAGE OR DISPLAY OF GOODS.
>> THERE'S NOT A WALK UP WINDOW
.
IT'S YOUR HOME AND IT'S
SUBORDINATE TO A PRIMARY
RESIDENTIAL USE ON THE LOT
WHEREAS ACCESSORY COMMERCIAL
UNIT AS I'VE COME TO UNDERSTAND
THEM AND DISCUSS THEM WITH SOME
OF THE PRIMARY ADVOCATES
DISCUSS AND A LITTLE LATER IN
THE REPORT THESE ARE DESIGNED
INTENTIONALLY FOR SOME TYPE
OF CUSTOMER ACCESS.
THEY'RE ONE OF THE WAYS THAT
THEY HAVE BEEN REQUESTED TO BE
INCORPORATED IS TO INCREASE
PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED RETAIL AND
SO STREET FACING ENTRANCES ARE
COMMON.
THE CUSTOMERS THE TIME
CORRESPOND TO BUILDING
OCCUPANCY LIMITS BECAUSE
THEY'RE DESIGNED TO COMMERCIAL
BUILDING STANDARDS.
THEY INCLUDE WALKING SERVICES
POTENTIALLY A NON RESIDENT
BUSINESS OWNER AND A TO A
GREATER EXTENT NONRESIDENT
EMPLOYEES.
THE USES MAY BE MORE INTENSIVE
.
SO WHEREAS YOU MAY HAVE A
ONLINE HOME OFFICE OR MAKE
SMALL GOODS IN YOUR HOME FOR AN
ONLINE STORE IN A HOME
OCCUPATION, ACRES HAVE MORE
INTENSIVE USES.
>> YOU MAY HAVE A CORNER STORE
,YOU MAY HAVE, YOU KNOW, A
SMALL MASSAGE THERAPY PRACTICE.
>> YOU MIGHT HAVE A SMALL CAFE
AND THE PHYSICAL MODIFICATIONS
ARE MUCH MORE ROBUST BECAUSE
THEY'RE MEETING THOSE PUBLIC
HEALTH AND SAFETY GOALS
OF COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES
GENERALLY SO THEY WOULD COMPLY
WITH AMERICANS WITH
DISABILITIES ACT REQUIREMENTS.
THEY MAY HAVE BICYCLE PARKING
CONSIDERATIONS.
THEY MAY HAVE OTHER PARKING
CONSIDERATIONS AND THEY MAY
ALSO DISPLAY GOODS AND DO
THINGS LIKE THAT.
BUT GENERALLY STILL WHERE I'VE
BEEN ABLE TO FIND A FEW
EXAMPLES OF THEM EITHER
PROPOSED OR PASSED THEY REMAIN
SUBORDINATE TO THE PRIMARY
RESIDENCE
.
>> SO DIVING INTO HOME
OCCUPATIONS ON THEIR OWN.
SO THESE ARE CURRENTLY IN
SECTION FIVE POINT SIXTEEN
POINT SIX AGE OF THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE .
THEY WERE UPDATED IN TWENTY
TWENTY ONE IN PARTICULAR TO
MOVE AWAY FROM A SPECIFIED LIST
OF ALLOWED USES TO ANY USE THAT
COMPLIES WITH STATE, LOCAL,
FEDERAL REGULATIONS AND OTHER
OTHER REQUIREMENTS OF OF THE
HOME OCCUPATION SECTION.
AND I REPEAT THE DEFINITION
THERE IS A REMINDER OUR CURRENT
DEFINITION EXCESSIVE USE
OF NONRESIDENTIAL NATURE
PERFORMED WITHIN A DWELLING
UNIT OR WITHIN AN ACCESSORY
BUILDING BY MEMBERS OF THE
FAMILY RESIDING IN THE DWELLING
UNIT AND NOT MORE THAN ONE
ADDITIONAL EMPLOYEE.
>> THIS IS OUR ACCESSORIES
TABLE.
I HIGHLIGHTED HOME OCCUPATIONS
YOU CAN EITHER ALLOWED IN ALL
OF OUR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
AND MANY OF OUR MIXED USE
DISTRICTS.
I DID ASK ABOUT THE MIXED USE
DISTRICT THEN TO A LARGE EXTENT
THIS IS REDUNDANT BECAUSE
OF THE NATURE OF OUR MIXED USE
DISTRICTS.
>> IF YOU'RE WONDERING WHY ONE
WAS LEFT OFF IT'S WE COULD ADD
IT BUT IT WOULDN'T NECESSARILY
DO TOO MUCH TO ADD IT BUT TO
MAKE IT TIDY WE COULD IF THAT
WAS A LINGERING QUESTION
SOMEONE HAD.
>> SO THE AREAS TO CONSIDER FOR
THE COUNCIL RESOLUTION BUT NOT
LIMITED TO MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE
FLOOR AREA CUSTOMERS PER DAY
CUSTOMERS AT A TIME NUMBER
OF ALLOWED NONRESIDENT
EMPLOYEES AND POTENTIALLY
ALLOWING USERS NOT CUSTOMARILY
INCIDENTAL OR SECONDARY THE
PERFORMANCE STANDARD LIST THE
AT LEFT IS FROM THE UDC, THE
ALPHA THE ALPHABET ITEM LISTED
IS CORRESPONDS TO A SECTION
WITHIN THE SUBSECTION
OF OCCUPATION SO MAXIMUM
PERMISSIBLE FLOOR AREA.
CURRENTLY ANN ARBOR ALLOWS UP
TO TWENTY FIVE PERCENT OF THE
FLOOR AREA OF THE PRINCIPAL
DWELLING UNIT OR UP TO TWO
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET AND AN
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE PROVIDED
THAT THE AMOUNT IN THE
ACCESSORIES STRUCTURE CAN'T THE
ACCESSORY BUILDING CAN EXCEED
THE TOTAL DWELLING UNIT SQUARE
FOOTAGE WE LIMIT CUSTOMERS PER
DAY TO TWENTY FOUR CUSTOMERS AT
A TIME TO SIX CLIENTS BETWEEN
EIGHT AND EIGHT P.M. ONE
RESIDENT EMPLOYEE IS ALLOWED
AND AS FAR AS WHETHER THE USES
ARE INCIDENTAL IN SECONDARY YES
,THE ENTIRE LOGIC OF THE HOME
OCCUPATION AND WHERE IT LIVES
WITHIN THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE IS WITHIN THE ACCESSORY
U.S. SO FOLLOWS THAT IT WOULD
BE SUBORDINATE AND USE AREA OR
PURPOSE TO THE PRINCIPAL LAND
USE ON THE SAME LOT SERVING A
PURPOSE AND SEPARATELY NORMALLY
INCIDENTAL TO SUCH PRINCIPAL
LANDS.
>> IF IT WERE IF THAT WERE NOT
THE CASE THEN WE WOULD BE
TALKING ABOUT A PRIMARY USE
HERE IS EXCERPTED VERSION OF A
MUCH LARGER COMPARISON TABLE
THAT WAS INCLUDED IN ATTACHMENT
TO IF YOU HAD DOWNLOADED THIS
ATTACHMENT EARLIER IN THE DAY I
WOULD LIKE TO INFORM YOU HAS
BEEN UPDATED FOR A COUPLE
OF MINOR ERRORS AND SO YOU
SHOULD HAVE THE VERSION THAT
READS ATTACHMENT TO ON ON IT
THAT'S JUST A LITTLE A LITTLE
NOTE BUT SOME BRIEF COMPARISONS
OF WHERE IN ARBOR BURSET WITH
OTHER CITIES EITHER IN MICHIGAN
OR WHICH HAVE COME UP THROUGH A
LITTLE BIT OF INTERNET RESEARCH
STAFF HAVE DONE INCLUDE
TRAVERSE CITY REGULATE THE WAY
IN
BARBER USED TO PRIOR TO
TWENTY TWENTY ONE BY VEHICULAR
TRIP SO INSTEAD OF CUSTOMERS
PER DAY THEY SAY EIGHT
VEHICULAR TRIPS, NO REGULATION
OF CUSTOMERS AT A TIME BUT NO
RESIDENT NONRESIDENT EMPLOYEES
ACROSS THE BOARD EVERY I
BELIEVE EVERY CITY INCLUDE THAT
THE EXCEPT THE HOME OCCUPATION
SHOULD BE SUBORDINATE TO THE
RESIDENTIAL USE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT AND GRAND
RAPIDS FOR EXAMPLE, HAS A
COUPLE OF CLASSES OF HOME
OCCUPATIONS.
CLASSI IS IT IT'S IT'S LISTED
DIFFERENT WAYS IN OTHER CITIES
BUT THEY USE THEIR CLASSI
HOMOCHITTO FOR BED AND
BREAKFAST AND AND BOARDING
ROOMS SO WE'RE REALLY LOOKING
AT CLASS A AND CLASS B CLASS IS
YOU NOBODY VISITS NO CUSTOMERS,
NO EMPLOYEES.
>> YOU ARE WORKING FROM YOUR
HOME IN A SPACE THAT'S UP TO
THREE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET AND
FOR THEIR CLASS B IT'S ALSO UP
TO THREE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
AND NOT MORE THAN TWENTY FIVE
PERCENT OF THE DWELLING UNIT
AREA LESS THAN FIFTY PERCENT
OF LIVING AREA ON THE MAIN
FLOOR.
BUT YOU COULD HAVE TWO
CUSTOMERS AT A TIME BETWEEN THE
HOURS OF SEVEN AND EIGHT P.M.
GRAND RAPIDS DOES NOT ALLOW
HOME OCCUPATION USES AND
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
THEY ALSO REQUIRE PERMITS AND
ARBER DOES NOT HAVE A PERMIT
SCHEME FOR HOME OCCUPATIONS
CURRENTLY WHICH IS ALSO WHY I
CAN'T TELL YOU HOW MANY THERE
ARE.
YOU MAY NOTICE ALSO THE UPDATE
YEAR FOR MANY CITIES IS VERY
RECENT.
THAT IS BECAUSE THE PANDEMIC
CAUSED A LOT OF REQUESTS FOR
MORE FLEXIBILITY IN HOMOCHITTO
AND SO MANY CITIES DECIDED TO
TAKE A HARD LOOK AT THEIR CODES
A HARD LOOK AT THEIR CODES TO
MAKE SURE THEY WEREN'T BEING
TOO RESTRICTIVE AND AND WERE
MAKING SURE THEY ALLOWED FOR
THIS TO BEGIN WITH.
SO IN DETROIT, TWENTY FIVE
PERCENT OF TOTAL FLOOR AREA
OF PRINCIPAL DWELLING THAT'S
THE SAME AS ANN ARBOR EXCEPT
THEY LIMIT UP TO FIVE HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET.
THEY HAVE SOME DIFFERENT
REGULATIONS IF YOU'RE IN A LOFT
NONRESIDENT EMPLOYEES IF YOU'RE
IN THEIR LOWER DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS YOU CAN
HAVE NO EMPLOYEES WHEREAS IN
ALL OTHER DISTRICTS YOU WOULD
BE ALLOWED TO NOT ALLOWED
UNNECCESSARY STRUCTURES, NO
PERMANENT REQUIRED AND AND SO
ON.
SO YOU CAN SEE THAT I I BELIEVE
ALTHOUGH IT'S NOT PERFECT
BECAUSE SOME AREAS OF SOME
OF THESE COMPARISON CITIES JUST
THEY DON'T REGULATE FOR CERTAIN
THINGS I'M ASSUMING BECAUSE
THEY BELIEVE IT WILL BE
ADDRESSED THROUGH OTHER
REGULATION SO THEY MAY
COMPENSATE WITH OTHER
REGULATIONS.
SO IF WE DON'T LIMIT CUSTOMERS
PER DAY WE'RE JUST GOING TO SAY
OK, BUT YOU CAN ONLY HAVE ONE
ONE CUSTOMER PER HOUR AND
THERE'S ONLY SO MANY HOURS
BETWEEN 8:00 A.M. AND EIGHT
P.M. SO SOMETIMES IF THERE'S AN
A YOU CAME BACK INTO HOW THAT
WOULD BE REGULATED ANYWAY.
>> SO WE ARE GENERALLY IN LINE
OR MORE PERMISSIVE IT APPEARS
THAN MANY OF THE COMPARISON
CITIES THAT WE CHOSE TO LOOK AT
ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITY PATTERNS
CAN INDICATE WHETHER OR NOT YOU
HAVE A PROBLEM WITH YOUR
REGULATIONS BECAUSE THEY'RE TOO
RESTRICTIVE IF A LOT
OF COMPLAINTS ARE GENERATED OR
COMMUNITY STANDARDS OR OUR
ZONING ENFORCEMENT STAFF ARE
REQUESTED TO LOOK AT ISSUES
RELATED TO HOME OCCUPATIONS
THAT CAN BE A BELLWETHER FOR
WE'RE PROBABLY DOING SOMETHING
THAT'S OUT OF SYNC WITH WHAT
RESIDENTS NEED.
>> YOU KNOW, MAYBE MAYBE THEY
NEED SOMETHING A LITTLE MORE
PERMISSIVE.
BUT WE REVIEWED OUR RECORDS
DATING BACK TO TWENTY SEVENTEEN
AND WE ONLY RECEIVED ONE TO TWO
COMPLAINTS ANNUALLY RELATED TO
THIS TOPIC GENERALLY THESE DO
BUBBLE UP TO US THE COMMUNITY
STANDARD STUFF THEY CALL OUR
ZONING COORDINATOR JOHN BARRETT
ON A REGULAR BASIS.
>> OUR OTHER DEPARTMENTS THEY
KNOW WHO TO GET THIS
INFORMATION TO.
>> SO I DON'T THINK IT'S AN
ISSUE OF LOSING COMPLAINTS IN
THE MAIL OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
I DO THINK THAT IF THEY EXISTED
THEY WOULD REACH US BUT WE'VE
HAD VERY FEW OF THEM AND SINCE
THE UPDATES IN TWENTY TWENTY
ONE TO THE HOME OCCUPATION
REGULATIONS THERE HAVE ONLY
BEEN THREE ONLY ONE RESULTED IN
AN RV OR A NOTICE OF VIOLATION
.
THE OTHER TWO WERE RESOLVED
THROUGH JUST COMMUNICATION OR
AS MR. BARRETT REFERS TO IT
VOLUNTARY COMPLIANCE.
HE WORKS VERY HARD TO RESOLVE
THINGS THROUGH VOLUNTARY
COMPLIANCE SO THAT WE ARE NOT
BEING PUNITIVE AND YOU CAN SEE
SOME OF THE ISSUES THAT WERE AT
PLAY CUSTOMERS AT A TIME
PARKING NUISANCE IN A MAILBOX
CONFLICT NOISE AND IN ONE CASE
THAT DID RESULT IN A NOTICE
OF VIOLATION.
THERE WAS EXCESSIVE OUTDOOR
STORAGE THAT WAS SPILLING OUT
INTO THE RIGHT OF WAY AND THERE
WERE THERE'S A LOT A LOT
OF ACTIVITY THAT WAS NOT
MEETING OUR REGULATIONS WITH
THAT THE STRATTON COURT THERE'S
ALSO ONE ONGOING ITEM RELATED
TO A TOW TRUCK OPERATION THAT
POPS UP ON A SEMI REGULAR BASIS
.
>> SO INITIAL STAFF
RECOMMENDATIONS RELATED TO HOME
OCCUPATIONS.
WE ALLOW UP TO TWENTY FIVE
PERCENT OF THE THE PRINCIPAL
DWELLING UNIT NOW WE COULD GO
HIRE SOME COMMUNITIES.
FORTY PERCENT FORTY FORTY NINE
PERCENT OR THEY LIST THE SQUARE
FOOTAGE.
I DON'T THINK WE DO THE BEST
JOB OF CLARIFYING THE TOTAL
ALLOWED AREA BETWEEN THE
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE ACCESSORY
BUILDING AND WHAT'S ALLOWED IN
THE HOME.
I THINK WE MIGHT ACTUALLY BE
IT'S POSSIBLE WE'RE
INCENTIVIZING USING AN
ACCESSORY BUILDING BECAUSE IT
MAY BE GREATER THAN TWENTY FIVE
PERCENT OF YOUR HOME.
>> SO I THINK THAT COULD THAT
COULD BE LOOKED AT AGAIN WE
DON'T HAVE A STRONG FEELING
EITHER WAY EXCEPT THAT IT NEEDS
TO REMAIN ACCESSORY IN ORDER TO
LOGICALLY FIT WITHIN THE
SECTION THE NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS
PER DAY SEEMS SEEMS ON THE
HIGHER SIDE COMPARED TO OUR
COMPARISON CITIES AND ALSO FROM
LOOKING AT THE CONVERSATIONS
THAT WERE HELD.
THIS IS RECENT HISTORY WITH THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
THERE WAS THOUGHT THAT TWENTY
FOUR PEOPLE ESPECIALLY AT A
TIME WOULD FEEL LIKE A LOT AND
THAT UH YOU KNOW IF THAT
HAPPENED IN EVERY HOME ON A
BLOCK THAT COULD BE REALLY
DISRUPTIVE.
>> SO WE RECOMMEND LEAVING THAT
NUMBER IF IT TO NOT TOUCH IT I
RECOMMEND LEAVING IT AS IS SO
THE CUSTOMERS AT A TIME IF WE
LEAVE CUSTOMERS PER DAY AT
TWENTY FOUR MAYBE THE CLIENT
VISITS PER DAY COULD BE
INCREASED FROM SIX TO SOMETHING
ELSE OR COULD BE REMOVED IF IF
WITH THE OTHER IF THE TWENTY
FOUR NUMBER DOESN'T INCREASE
AND FOR NONRESIDENT EMPLOYEES
THE THE LIVE WORK OPTION
THROUGH THE MICHIGAN BUILDING
CODE ALLOWS UP TO FIVE
NONRESIDENT EMPLOYEES AND THAT
SEEMED LIKE THE UPPER LIMIT
OF WHAT WE WOULD SUPPORT.
IT STILL COULD FEEL LIKE A LOT
IF YOU HAVE FIVE GUARANTEED
DAILY VISITS BEFORE YOU EVEN
HAVE CLIENT VISITS AND THAT
MULTIPLIED BY EVERY HOUSE ON
THE BLOCK COULD FEEL LIKE A
LOT.
SO WE WOULD NOT RECOMMEND GOING
BEYOND FIVE AND THEN WE AGAIN
RECOMMEND MAINTAINING SECONDARY
STATUS FOR THE FOLLOW UP
ACTIONS CONTINUE COMPARISON
CITY EVALUATION WE WANT TO
CONTINUE TO REFINE WHO WE'RE
COMPARING OURSELVES AGAINST,
SEE IF WE CAN REACH STAFF IN
ANOTHER IN OTHER CITIES AS
NEEDED.
>> I WOULD LIKE DEPENDING ON
WHICH AREAS WE RECEIVE FEEDBACK
FROM TONIGHT AND FROM CITY
COUNCIL WHEN THIS PORT ADVANCES
DEPENDING ON WHAT FEEDBACK WE
RECEIVE ALONG THE LINES
OF AREAS OF THE HOME OCCUPATION
TO BECOME MORE USE INTENSE WE'D
LIKE TO HEAR FROM INTERNAL
STAKEHOLDERS LIKE OUR
TRANSPORTATION GROUP AND
ENGINEERING TO JUST UNDERSTAND
IF THERE'S ANYTHING WE HAVEN'T
FORESEEN.
>> TALK TO OUR BUILDING STAFF
AGAIN AND THEN WE'D LIKE TO USE
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN PROCESS
TO ENGAGE THE COMMUNITY FURTHER
IN ADVANCE REGULATORY CHANGES
NOT THAN THIS BUT ON THE
CONNECTED TOPICS ACCESSORY
COMMERCIAL UNITS CHANGES IN
PRIMARY USES MAYBE WE DON'T
HAVE THE BEST PUBLIC MATERIALS
OR PUBLICLY AVAILABLE
INFORMATION THAT WE COULD.
>> THAT'S ANOTHER THING THAT WE
COULD DO IS CREATE MORE
BROCHURES OR ONE PAGERS OR WEB
CONTENT THAT JUST SAYS HERE'S
WHAT YOU'RE ALLOWED TO DO NOW
BECAUSE MAYBE SOME OF THE
GENESIS OF REQUESTS AROUND
FLEXIBILITY COME FROM A PLACE
OF NOT KNOWING WHAT IS ALREADY
ALLOWED.
I'VE SEEN IT BEFORE AND IT
COULD DEFINITELY BE THE CASE
AGAIN WE SO THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT WE CAN LOOK MORE DEEPLY
INTO CREATING AND THEN AT THE
END POTENTIAL TAXMAN'S SENSORY
COMMERCIAL UNITS SO THESE DO
NOT HAVE A CURRENT DEFINITION
OR COGGS THEY DON'T EXIST IN
OUR CODE .
I HAVE FOUND VERY FEW AND
VARIED VERSIONS OF WHAT THESE
ARE IN THE WILD AS THEY SAY.
SO I JUST TOOK A STAB AT WHAT I
THINK THEY ARE BASED ON WHAT
I'VE UNDERSTOOD WHICH IS AN
ACCESSORY USE OF NONRESIDENTIAL
NATURE THAT IS PERFORMED WITHIN
AN ACCESSORY BUILDING.
>> IT'S A TYPICALLY SEPARATE
PHYSICAL SPACE LOCATED ON A LOT
WITH THE PRINCIPAL
RESIDENCE
SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED FOR
COMMERCIAL USE LIKE ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNITS.
ACRES ARE SUBORDINATE TO THE
MAIN RESIDENCE BUT DISTINCT
FROM IT THEY MAY BE STANDALONE
STRUCTURES CONVERTED GARAGES,
ADDITIONS TO THE MAIN HOUSE OR
DEDICATED PORTIONS OF THE HOME
WITH SEPARATE ENTRANCES AND
I'VE INCLUDED OUR ACCESSORY
BUILDING DEFINITION AGAIN FOR
REFERENCE WHICH IS TO REMIND
THAT ACCESSORY BUILDINGS CAN BE
ATTACHED OR DETACHED.
I SPOKE WITH MR. NEIL HELLER
OF NEIGHBORHOOD WORKSHOP IN
PORTLAND, OREGON.
HE IS ONE OF THE FOLKS WHO HAVE
ADVANCED THIS IDEA THROUGH
THOUGHT ARTICLES AND ALSO
CONSULTING.
HE'S A NATIONWIDE URBAN
PLANNING CONSULTANT AND HE
MAINTAINS A WEBSITE IMAGE
LIBRARY FOR EXAMPLE LIBRARY
CALLED ACOS ACROSS AMERICA.
AND I THOUGHT THIS WOULD BE A
GOOD PERSON TO TALK WITH TO
FIGURE OUT WHERE I CAN FIND AN
EXAMPLE OF THIS.
AND MR. HELLER SAID I RECOMMEND
LOOKING AT LOS ANGELES COUNTY.
LOS ANGELES COUNTY COVERS ANY
JURISTIC DOWN IN THAT COUNTY
THAT DOESN'T HAVE THEIR OWN
ADOPTED STANDARDS.
SO THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES HAS
THEIR OWN ZONING CODE BUT MANY
IN UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITIES
AND SMALL CITIES WITHIN THE
COUNTY MAY NOT.
>> SO THIS WOULD APPLY IN THOSE
PLACES BUT STILL PRETTY BIG
GEOGRAPHIC AREA WITH MANY
PEOPLE.
>> AND IF YOU LOOK AT THE DATE
IT'S FROM SEPTEMBER TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR WHICH IS WHEN THIS
COUNCIL RESOLUTION CAME DOWN TO
US FOR CONSIDERATION.
SO IT IS HOT OFF THE PRESS.
>> I HAVE NOT HAD A CHANCE TO
REACH OUT TO ANYONE THERE TO
FIND HOW IS THIS GOING, HAVE
YOU HAD ONE PROPOSE ETC. SO BUT
THEIR KEY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
ARE THEY ALLOW AN HQ WITH A
MAXIMUM OF ONE THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET OR UP TO 40 PERCENT OF THE
RESIDENTIAL FLOOR AREA
WHICHEVER IS LESS ONE STOREY
HEIGHT LIMIT ONLY ALLOWED ON
THE GROUND FLOOR ONE PER LOT
MUST FACE AND BE ORIENTED TO
THE STREET SEPARATE ENTRANCE
REQUIRED FROM THE MAIN
RESIDENCE.
>> THEY DID ALLOW FOR MORE
FLEXIBLE SETBACKS IN PARTICULAR
THE SIDE AND FRONT YARD SET
BACKS THEN WOULD TRADITIONALLY
BE ALLOWED IN RESIDENTIAL UNITS
BUT THEY DID STILL HAVE THEM SO
IT WASN'T RIGHT UP TO THE LINE
OF THE SIDEWALK.
>> THEY REQUIRED A MINIMUM 10
FOOT SETBACK FOR THE
PREEXISTING SETBACK WHICHEVER
WAS MORE MORE PERMISSIVE TO THE
ACA.
>> YOU IN THAT EXIST THERE'S A
CARVE UP FOR EXISTING LEGAL
STRUCTURES HOURS OR SEVEN A.M.
TO NINE P.M. DAILY.
>> NO OUTDOOR ACTIVITIES OR
MUSIC ALLOWED.
SO YOU SHOULD CONTAIN YOUR
COMMERCIAL USES WITHIN THAT
STRUCTURE.
>> YOU NEED TO SCREEN YOUR
TRASH BUT THEY DON'T HAVE
PARKING REQUIREMENTS AND THEY
DO ALLOW LIMITED SIGNAGE.
>> THEY DID HOWEVER HAVE VERY
LIMITED PERMITTED USES SO THEY
ALLOWED BAKERY SHOPS, SECONDARY
MEDICAL OFFICES, NEIGHBORHOODS
SERVING GROCERIES, SUPPLY
STORES, RESTAURANTS, ICE CREAM
SHOPS, SECONDARY DENTIST
OFFICES, DELICATESSENS.
BUT THEY DON'T ALLOW ANY SALE
OF ALCOHOL, ART GALLERIES, ART
SUPPLY STORES, FEED AND GRAIN
SALES, FURNITURE STORES FOR
YOUR SHOPS, GLASS AND MIRROR
SALES, GUN DEALERS, HOUSEHOLD
APPLIANCE STORES, HARDWARE
STORES HAVE SUPPLY STORES.
>> I SELL OFFICE MACHINES AND
SOME OTHER USES SO IT IS A
SMALL LIST.
IT IS NOT ANY USE THAT MEETS
OUR OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
IT WAS YOU HAVE THIS MENU
OF THINGS YOU CAN YOU CAN IN
SPEAKING WITH OUR OWN CITY
OF ANN ARBOR BUILDING STAFF
ABOUT THIS TOPIC, I SHOULD ALSO
MENTION THAT THE ACLU'S IN IN
LOS ANGELES COUNTY REQUIRE A
MINISTERIAL PLAN REVIEW WHICH
WOULD BE THE EQUIVALENT OF OUR
SITE PLAN FOR PLANNING MANAGER
IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS CITY
OF ANN ARBOR BUILDING STAFF
RECOMMENDED LIMITING TO A AND B
USE CLASSIFICATIONS WHICH
CORRESPOND TO MERCANTILE
ASSEMBLY AND BUSINESS WITHIN
THE BUILDING CODE .
THIS WOULD SCREEN OUT ANY
HAZARDOUS USES AND OTHER THINGS
THAT WOULD NARROW THE FIELD
THEY WERE SPEAKING BROADLY AND
I JUST HAD THEM FOR A LITTLE
BIT OF TIME IN THEIR OFFICE SO
BE KIND TO THEIR
RECOMMENDATIONS BECAUSE IT'S
KIND OF OFF THE TOP OF ME ME
CALLED BRINGING THIS ITEM TO
THEM BUT THEY SAID THAT THERE'S
WAYS TO DO THIS BUT IT'S NOT
GOING TO BE CHEAP BECAUSE THERE
IS NOT A WAY THAT THEY COULD
IMAGINE A CORNER STORE OR A
GENERAL BUSINESS ALONG THE
LINES OF WHAT WE SEE MOST
REQUESTED FOR FOOD OR SMALL
SUNDRIES THAT WOULD ALLOW YOU
TO GO GET SOME BASIC GROCERIES
YOU NEED TO ACCOUNT FOR PUBLIC
HEALTH AND SAFETY.
>> YOU NEED TO ACCOUNT FOR
ACCESS BY PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES.
YOU NEED TO ACCOUNT FOR THINGS
THAT IF YOU WERE DOING SMALL
LESSONS OR CONSULTING IN YOUR
HOME IS VERY DIFFERENT AND SO
THEY WITH HOME BUILDING YOU CAN
BUILD UP TO THREE THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET WITH A
RESIDENTIAL BUILDER'S LICENSE
AND YOU DON'T NEED TO INVOLVE
NECESSARILY ARCHITECT OR
ENGINEER THAT THERE'S NOT AN
EQUIVALENT OF THAT FOR BUILDING
TO THE COMMERCIAL
CODE STANDARDS AND THEY GAVE ME
A SHEET WHICH IS INCLUDED IN
ONE OF YOUR ATTACHMENTS THAT IS
PROVIDED BY THE INTERNATIONAL
CODE COUNCIL.
>> YES, BY THE INTERNATIONAL
CODE COUNCIL AND THESE ARE
UPDATED ON A SEASONAL BASIS.
>> SO THE MOST RECENT IS FROM
AUGUST TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AND
IT GIVES SORT OF GENERAL RULES
ABOUT HOW MUCH IT COSTS PER
SQUARE FOOT TO BUILD SOMETHING
.
THEY POINTED OUT TO ME THAT M
MERCANTILE IN THE TVB OR FIVE B
CATEGORY THE VERY BASIC
CONSTRUCTION PER SQUARE FOOT
STARTS AT ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY NINE DOLLARS.
SO IF YOU START TO APPLY THAT
THEN CONSIDER SITE IMPROVEMENTS
THEN CONSIDER ARCHITECT OR
ENGINEERING FEES, THEN CONSIDER
FINISHING MATERIALS.
YOU CAN START TO GET A SENSE
OF HOW MUCH IT WOULD COST TO
CREATE AN AQ ALSO DEPENDING ON
HOW CLOSE IT WOULD BE
REGARDLESS OF WHAT THE ZONING
ALLOWS THEIR DIFFERENT FIRE
RATING REQUIREMENTS AS YOU GET
CLOSER AND CLOSER TO OTHER
STRUCTURES WHETHER ON THE SAME
LADDER ADJACENT IT WOULDN'T
MATTER.
FIRE RATING WOULD BE VERY
DIFFICULT IN A CONVERSION LIKE
IF YOU HAVE A HOME AND YOU WANT
TO TURN THE FIRST HOME INTO THE
ACL ADDING THAT FIRE RATING TO
MAKE SURE THAT IN THE EVENT
OF A FIRE THAT SECOND FLOOR
DOESN'T COLLAPSE ONTO PEOPLE,
THAT'S REALLY WHAT THEY WERE
DESCRIBING TO ME IS THE CONCERN
AND WHY YOU WOULD REQUEST FIRE
RATING AND WHY IT'S REQUIRED
FOR COMMERCIAL THAT CAN BE VERY
COSTLY EVEN IF YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT AN ADDITION ON THE FRONT
OF THE HOME IF IT'S FOR ONE
OF THESE PURPOSES THEY SAID IT
SHOULD BE BUILT TO THE
COMMERCIAL CODE STANDARD AND
THAT WILL NOT BE CHEAP .
>> SO A STANDALONE STRUCTURE IS
PROBABLY THE LEAST EXPENSIVE
PATH TO TO ONE OF THESE.
>> THERE ARE A LOT OF UDC
SECTIONS I WOULD HAVE TO CHANGE
TO ALLOW THIS WHICH IS FINE BUT
I'M JUST SIGNALING THESE ARE
SOME OF THE AREAS THAT WOULD BE
AFFECTED OUR ACCESSORY USE
SECTIONS ARE USED TABLE THE
SPECIFIC STANDARDS OUR HOME
OCCUPATION USE SPECIFIC
STANDARDS POTENTIALLY OUR AREA
HEIGHT AND PLACEMENT
REGULATIONS AND RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS REQUIRED APPROVALS
FOR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES BY
LAND USE AND THEN NEW
DEFINITIONS, NEW USE SPECIFIC
STANDARDS AND AREA HIGH IN
PLACEMENT SECTIONS WOULD NEED
TO BE CREATED .
>> I SPOKE WITH OUR HISTORIC
PRESERVATION COORDINATOR JILL
THATCHER ABOUT THIS TOPIC AND
SHE GAVE ME ERM AMONG OTHER
THINGS SOME REALLY GREAT
PRECEDENTS THAT ARE ALREADY IN
EXISTENCE IN ANN ARBOR THERE'S
SIX PICTURES OF THEM FOR YOU TO
ENJOY IN THE REPORT BUT THE
PRIMARY CONCERN IS THAT NEW
BUILDINGS ARE DEEMPHASIZED IN
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES AND THAT'S NOT JUST
A LOCAL REQUIREMENT.
OUR DESIGN GUIDELINES HAVE TO
BE APPROVED BY THE MICHIGAN
STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION
OFFICER.
>> THE THE SHIPPER AND THAT IS
A GENERAL REQUIREMENT
OF HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES THAT YOU DEEMPHASIZE
YOU SCREEN NEW CONSTRUCTION AND
YOU LET THE OLDER CONSTRUCTION
AND THE HISTORIC STRUCTURE
SHINE.
SO IF THESE WERE TO BE
IMPLEMENTED THERE MAY NEED TO
BE SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS TO ALLOW
NON STREET FACING ENTRANCES FOR
EXAMPLE, IF SOMETHING WERE IN A
BACKYARD TO MEET THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT GUIDELINES OR ALTHOUGH
WOULD REQUIRE THE FIRE RATING
IN THE EXPENSIVE RENOVATION
POTENTIALLY YOU COULD RESTORE
AN EXISTING STRUCTURE SUCH AS
THIS ONE AT 513 FOURTH STREET.
THIS IS IN OUR OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THIS WAS A STOREFRONT FOR MANY
YEARS NOW IT'S INTEGRATED AS
PART OF THE HOME BUT THIS IS AN
EXAMPLE OF A LOCAL PRECEDENT
THAT EXISTS IN ANN ARBOR.
SO FOLLOW UP ACTIONS FOR ACRS
.
WE'D LIKE TO CONTINUE
COMPARISON CITY EVALUATION.
I HAVE PENDING SOME RESEARCH
INTO THE CITY OF RALLY CITY
POMONA, CALIFORNIA WHICH ALLOWS
USE BUT ONLY IF THEY'RE
CONVERTED GARAGES.
SO THERE ARE SOME PLACES THAT
ARE ARE DOING THINGS WITH THIS
BUT THEY'RE NOT UNIFORM.
THEY'RE NOT AS PREDICTABLE AS
YOU WOULD SEE WITH HOME
OCCUPATIONS.
IT DOES FEEL LIKE PROBABLY
THERE ARE SOME PLACES THAT ARE
DOING THIS BUT THEY DON'T CALL
IT THIS.
IT JUST EXISTS AND THEY'RE NOT
TOOTING THEIR OWN HORN AND
THEY'RE NOT IN ARTICLES AND
IT'S A LITTLE HARDER TO FIND
THOSE EXAMPLES BUT WE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEND SOME MORE TIME ON
THAT AND THEN I HAVE BEEN
WORKING WITH OUR GEOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION SYSTEM STAFF TO
PURSUE GEOSPATIAL ANALYSIS AND
SOME FEASIBILITY.
SO HOW MANY CORNER LOTS WITHIN
OUR DISTRICTS HAVE?
IF YOU REMOVE THE SQUARE
FOOTAGE OF THE PRINCIPAL
STRUCTURE MIGHT HAVE ROOM LEFT
OVER TO BUILD SOMETHING LIKE
THIS.
>> I I STILL HAVE TO GO THROUGH
THAT DATA WITH THEM TO
UNDERSTAND MORE ABOUT IT.
BUT IT'S SOMETHING THAT I THINK
RUNNING SOME MORE SENARIO THAN
FEASIBILITY WOULD BE USEFUL AND
THEN THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS
ALREADY CONSIDERING HOW TO
INTEGRATE COMMERCIAL INTO OUR
NEW RECOMMENDED ZONES AND THIS
IS MAYBE JUST A MORE SPECIFIC
PIECE OF THAT ONGOING WORK.
SO WE'D LIKE TO USE THAT
PROCESS IN THE DRAFT PLAN WHICH
WILL BE COMING IN THE VERY NEAR
FUTURE TO ENGAGE THE COMMUNITY
FURTHER ON THIS AND CONNECTED
TOPICS AND THEN BECAUSE OF THE
EXTENT THIS IT MAY REQUIRE SOME
CONSULTING ASSISTANCE AND WE
WOULD NEED TO SORT OUT THAT
PROCESS JUST LIKE TWO MORE
SLIDES ALMOST IN SMALL FORMAT
COMMERCIAL NOT ACCESSORY.
I THINK SOMETIMES THE EXAMPLES
THAT I'VE HEARD AND THIS IS NOT
JUST FROM CITY COUNCIL BUT KIND
OF PEPPERED THROUGHOUT
DIFFERENT ARTICLES THAT I'M
READING OR BLOGS OR PEOPLE
TALKING IS THAT JUST LIKE
THERE'S AN IMPORTANT
DISTINCTION BETWEEN OR A
HELPFUL DISTINCTION TO BE MADE
BETWEEN HOME OCCUPATIONS AND
ACCESSORY COMMERCIAL UNITS?
THERE'S A THIRD COLUMN WE COULD
ADD TO THAT TABLE WHICH IS
SMALL FORMAT COMMERCIAL THAT'S
NOT ACCESSORY.
IT'S A PRIMARY USE BUT IT'S
INTEGRATED INTO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT'S JUST
SMALLER IN SIZE BUT IT DOESN'T
HAVE TO BE ON A LOT WITH A
RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE.
IT COULD BE A MIXED USE
BUILDING BUT IT DOESN'T HAVE TO
BE IN ORDER TO BE ACCOMMODATED
WITHIN AN ACCESSORY COMMERCIAL
USE SCHEME.
>> SO SMALL FORMAT COMMERCIAL
WOULD REQUIRE AMENDING PRIMARY
USES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
THE CURRENT REGULATIONS FOR
ALLOWED PRIMARY USES ARE IN
TABLE FIVE POINT FIFTEEN DASH
ONE IF YOU'D LIKE.
>> TAKE A LOOK.
AND THIS IS ALREADY UNDER
ACTIVE CONSIDERATION IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN IT NEEDED NO PROMPTING.
THIS HAS BEEN A START OF OUR
CONVERSATIONS FROM THE
BEGINNING AND LAUNCH OF OF THAT
PROCESS AND I INCLUDED A
PICTURE OF BIG CITY SMALL WORLD
BAKERY WHICH I THINK IS PERHAPS
AN EXAMPLE OF THE TYPE OF SMALL
FORMAT COMMERCIAL THAT COULD BE
ADDED THROUGHOUT RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS.
>> THERE'S OTHER COMMERCIAL
OPTIONS FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE
LOOKING TO MAKE GOOD I CAN MAKE
GOOD USE OF THEIR SKILLS AND
ENTER THE ECONOMY.
>> SPECIAL EVENTS CAN BE
INITIATED BY AN INDIVIDUAL, BY
NEIGHBORHOOD ORGANIZATION, BY
NONPROFIT, ET CETERA.
>> THESE CAN ALLOW OPPORTUNITY
FOR SMALL VENDING FOR PEOPLE
WHO ARE JUST GETTING THEIR
BUSINESS STARTED OR WHO ARE
SELLING SMALL GOODS SIDEWALK
OCCUPANCY PERMITS ARE SEASONAL
PERMITS THAT ALLOW YOU TO
OCCUPY A FIXED PIECE
OF SIDEWALK WITH PERMISSION
FROM THE ADJACENT BUILDING
OWNER FOR A SMALL FEE AND OUR
PEDDLER'S LICENSE ALLOWS YOU TO
SELL GOODS THROUGHOUT THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR AS LONG AS YOU
HAVE INSURANCE NAMING THE CITY
AND PAY FORTY FIVE DOLLARS SO
THOSE AND THE MICHIGAN COTTAGE
FOOD LAW ALLOWS YOU TO SELL
COMPLIANT GOODS WITH A
PEDDLER'S LICENSE AS WELL.
>> I RELEASE MY PRESENTATION TO
DISCUSSION.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR PATIENCE.
OK, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE VERY
THOROUGH REPORT.
I REALLY APPRECIATE WE ARE
CONSIDERING THE PROPOSED MOTION
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION IS
APPROVING THE ATASH REPORT AND
FORWARDING TO CITY COUNCIL FOR
CONSIDERATION AND DIRECTION
OF ACTIVITIES.
SO WITH THAT I THINK WE'LL GO
THROUGH DISCUSSION AND THEN WE
CAN CHAT ABOUT IT.
DOES ANYBODY WANT TO KICK IT
OFF?
OH SURE.
YEAH.
SOUNDS COMMISSIONER ADAMS
REPORT MY NOTES SO DON'T SCREW
.
SO I GUESS THE QUESTION SO
CURRENT CODE WHEN I WAS READING
THE MATERIALS BEFORE THE
MEETING I THOUGHT I UNDERSTOOD
THE AQ ISSUE THAT WE ALREADY
PERMIT THEM THAT WE ALREADY
PERMIT HOME OCCUPATION TO BE
SITED INSIDE AN EXISTING
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
SO I WAS A LITTLE BIT CONFUSED
BY THE DISCUSSION AROUND
ADDITIONAL ONEROUS BUILDING
CODE AND FIRE CODE AND FEDERAL
LAW AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES
ACT REQUIREMENTS THAT WOULD BE
GENERATED BY ADDING AN AQ TO
YOUR LIKE IF I BUILD A GARAGE
AND I USE IT FOR HOME
OCCUPATION THE WAY THAT
CODE PERMITS ME TO DO IT
SHOULDN'T MATTER WHAT ORDER
THAT THAT OCCURS IF I HAVE AN
EXISTING GARAGE AND I USE IT OR
IF I BUILD ONE AND I DECIDE TO
USE IT, I'M NOT SURE WHY THAT'S
CHANGING THE FINANCIAL CALCULUS
OF THAT OR THE LEGAL
REQUIREMENTS AT ATTACH.
>> I MUST BE MISSING SOMETHING
THIS MAY GO TO THE PUBLIC
EDUCATION COMPONENT BUT WE HAVE
THIS CLAUSE IN OUR HOME
OCCUPATION REGULATION THAT SAYS
IF YOU COMPLY WITH ALL OTHER
LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL
REGULATIONS SO IF YOU HAD A
BARBERSHOP IN ADDITION TO
NEEDING TO BE LICENSED BY THE
STATE IN ORDER TO COMPLETE THAT
ACTIVITY ON SITE IN A GARAGE,
YOU WOULD NEED A CERTIFICATE
OF OCCUPANCY FOR THAT SPACE AND
YOUR GARAGE WILL MOST LIKELY
NOT MEET THE REQUIREMENTS
OF THE COMMERCIAL BUILDING
CODE AND THEREFORE YOU WOULD
NOT BE ABLE TO USE YOUR GARAGE
FOR THAT TYPE OF USE AND THAT
APPLIES TO OTHER EXAMPLES THAT
YOU CAN THINK OF .
SO I GUESS IT'S NOT THAT IT'S
NOT THAT ADDING AN AQ PROGRAM
WOULD GENERATE THOSE COSTS AND
THOSE REQUIREMENTS.
IT'S THAT ACTIVITY TODAY IS
LIKELY SLIDING UNDER THE RADAR
IN SUCH A WAY AS TO NOT TRIGGER
THAT TYPE OF REGULATORY
ENFORCEMENT.
>> NOBODY'S GATE ENFORCEMENT IS
COMPLAINT BASED AND SO WE WOULD
INVESTIGATE A COMPLAINT FOR
PROBABLY GENERATED BY SOME TYPE
OF GENERIC NUISANCE AND THEN IF
IT WERE FOUND TO BE AN ACTIVITY
THAT REQUIRED A CERTIFICATE
OF OCCUPANCY FOR SOMETHING
UNDER THE BUILDING CODE , YOU
THEY WOULD SAY YOU CAN'T USE
YOUR GARAGE FOR A COFFEE SHOP.
YOU'RE NOT ALLOWED TO DO THAT.
YEAH, RIGHT.
THANK YOU COUNSEL.
>> NO DISH I BELIEVE YOU'RE
NEXT.
YEAH, I THINK AS YOU WENT ON IN
THIS GREAT PRESENTATION YOU
ADDRESSED I THINK MOSTLY
IMPLICITLY BUT PRETTY ALMOST
EXPLICITLY THE BIG CONCERN THAT
WAS OCCURRING TO ME WHICH IS
THAT JUST AS WITH ADIEUS AC YOU
SOUND LIKE VERY EXPENSIVE TINY
COMMERCIAL SPACES AND THEREFORE
I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY PEOPLE
WOULD REALLY BE ABLE TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF THEM AND I DON'T
KNOW IF THEY WOULD FIT FIT WHAT
PEOPLE ARE ENVISIONING WHICH IS
THIS IS A STEPPING STONE OR
EASY WAY INTO BRICK AND MORTAR
STORE.
I THINK HE'D PROBABLY RATHER
HAVE A BIG BRICK AND MORTAR
STORE SOMEWHERE RATHER THAN A
LITTLE NEIGHBORHOOD THING AS
MUCH AS WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE
MORE COMMERCIAL IN
NEIGHBORHOODS SO.
RIGHT.
YEAH.
SO OK THEN THEN THEN YOU'VE
RAISED AN INTERESTING THING
ABOUT THE IDEA OF SMALL FORMAT
COMMERCIAL THAT IS NOT ACCESSOR
AND DOES NOT HAVE TO BE ON A
LOT WITH A RESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURE COULD BE PEOPLE
CONVERT SMALL HOUSES TO SMALL
FORMAT COMMERCIAL.
>> I MEAN OBVIOUSLY YOU'D HAVE
TO GO THROUGH THE ALL OF THE
ADA REGULATIONS AND THE FIRE
CODE AND ALL OF THAT BUT I'M
JUST WONDERING IF IF YOU MEANT
BUILDING CODES THE PRIMARY
OBSTACLE WOULD BE WHETHER OR
NOT THE ZONING ALLOWED IT,
WHETHER WELL SO THAT WOULD BE
SOMETHING THAT WE COULD CHANGE
FOR ZONING TO ALLOW IT BECAUSE
WE STILL DO HAVE SMALLER HOUSES
AROUND THE CITY AND
PARTICULARLY THOSE THAT ARE ON
SMALLER LOTS AND AREN'T
SUITABLE TO BE CONVERTED INTO
BIG HOUSES WHICH WE REALLY WISH
WEREN'T HAPPENING ANYWAY.
>> THOSE LITTLE HOUSES MIGHT
PEOPLE MIGHT SEE THEM AS VIABLE
FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES IF THE
ZONING WOULD ALLOW IT.
SO MAYBE THAT'S A MORE
PROMISING ROUTE TO WHAT FOLKS
WERE TRYING TO GET AT WITH THIS
YOU ARE IN SYNC WITH THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN PROCESS
WHICH IS ACTIVELY LOOKING AT
HOW DO WE INCORPORATE MORE
NONRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY USES IN
WHAT ARE NOW ARE TRADITIONALLY
RESIDENTIAL ZONES NOT UNDER AN
ACCESSORY SCHEME PER SAY BUT
INTEGRATED PERHAPS SO THEN IT
BECOMES A QUESTION DO YOU ALLOW
THEM IN A WIDE OPEN WAY OR DO
YOU TAILOR THEM TO JUST THE
EDGES OF EXISTING STREET THAT
MEET SOME TYPE OF CRITERIA?
IS THERE A BUS ROUTE?
IS THERE A CERTAIN AMOUNT
OF DAILY TRAFFIC
THAT IS ON
THAT STREET?
>> IS IT A THROUGH ROUTE
OF SOME KIND OR SO THERE THEN
YOU CAN START TO THINK ABOUT
HOW WOULD IT BEST MAKE SENSE TO
CLUSTER RETAIL?
THERE'S OTHER CONSIDERATIONS
BEYOND JUST THE PERMISSION TO
WHERE WILL RETAIL BE ACCESS
SUCCESSFUL WHEN YOU CLUSTER IT
THEN YOU CAN ALSO MANAGE TRIPS
TO CERTAIN LOCATIONS OR BUILD
OTHER THINGS THAT ARE
BENEFICIAL FOR FROM AN URBAN
PLANNING ONE'S TRUE TRUE BUT
MAYBE JUST A LITTLE THINGS
SPRINKLED AROUND THAT ARE THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THINGS THAT YOU
WALK TO WHERE YOU BIKE TO ARE
USEFUL.
>> I KNOW THAT YOU MENTIONED
THAT YOU WANTED TO DO AN
ANALYSIS OF HOW MANY CORNER
LOTS THERE ACTUALLY WERE IN THE
CITY THAT HAD LEFTOVER SPACE.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S FEASIBLE
OR REASONABLE TO WONDER IF IT'S
POSSIBLE TO LOOK AT HOW MANY
SMALLISH SLOTS DO WE HAVE WITH
SMALLISH HOUSES ON THEM AND
WHERE ARE THEY BECAUSE WE DON'T
WANT TO OVEREAT, YOU KNOW,
OVERPRESCRIBE AND THEN YOU
KNOW, OH THERE IS ONE BUT IT'S
NOT ON A BUS ROUTE AND IT IS
YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN?
SO I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S WORTH
TRYING TO FIGURE THAT OUT OR
EVEN POSSIBLE BECAUSE IT DOES
SOUND LIKE IT WOULD BE AWFULLY
DIFFICULT TO COUNT THEM WITHOUT
SOMETIMES THOSE ARE ALSO
NATURALLY OCCURRING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING OR WITHIN THE ANN ARBOR
CONTEXT THE CLOSEST THAT WE
GET.
SO CONVERTING THEM MAY TAKE
LOWER COST HOUSING STOCK OFF
THE MARKET IS ONE CONSIDERATION
TOO.
BUT SURE THAT YEAH THAT IS THAT
IS CERTAINLY POSSIBLE.
THEY ARE MANY OF THESE PLACES
ARE GETTING CONVERTED ANYWAY
BUT YOU KNOW AND NOT IN WAYS
THAT PRESERVE THEM AS LOW COST
HOUSING.
SO IT MIGHT BE THAT MIGHT BE SO
AND SO AND I JUST HAD A COUPLE
OF OTHER THOUGHTS ABOUT THE
L.A. COUNTY AND I UNDERSTAND
THAT WE DON'T HAVE TO TAKE THEM
AS A MODEL OR ANYTHING ELSE,
BUT I THOUGHT THAT THERE I
THOUGHT THAT THERE I WONDERED
IF YOU HAD ANY IDEA WHY THEY
PROHIBIT ART GALLERIES.
THE ONLY THING THAT I COULD
THINK RELATED TO ART SUPPLIES
OR MAYBE ART GALLERIES IS THAT
LOS ANGELES HAS A DIFFERENT
HISTORY OF ORGANIZED CRIME.
OH, I DON'T KNOW IF ART
SUPPLIES ARE YOU KNOW, PEOPLE
ARE THINKING OH GRAFFITI OR
GRAFFITI GALLERY.
>> I DON'T WANT THAT NEAR MY
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I DON'T KNOW THAT SEEMS ODD
BECAUSE WHEN I THINK OF AN ART
GALLERY I MEAN WELL I'VE SEEN
THE LOGIC BEFORE SO YEAH I BUT
WHEN I THINK OF AN ART GALLERY
I THINK OF SOMEONE HANGS
PAINTINGS AND I GET TO GO AND
LOOK AT THEM AND MAYBE BUY THEM
OR SOMETHING AND PEOPLE DO THIS
IN ANN ARBOR THEY HAVE OPEN
HOUSES ON SPECIAL DAYS, THE ART
HOPS AND STUFF AND SO I MEAN I
WAS JUST THINKING THAT ACTUALLY
AN ART GALLERY WOULD BE A GREAT
USE AND THE OTHER THING WAS THE
RESTRICTION TO THE LIMITS ON
THE RETAIL AND EMPHASIS ON NEW
GOODS ONLY.
>> WELL, I DON'T KNOW WHY THEY
SPECIFY IT BECAUSE IF THEY
RESTRICT RETAIL TO GROCERY
STORES, CORNER STORES AND PARTY
SUPPLY STORES I DON'T THINK
ANYBODY'S GOING TO BUY USED
GROCERIES OR USE PARTY SUPPLIES
.
>> BUT I COULD SEE
NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE YOU WOULD
HAVE LITTLE HUBS FOR
CIRCULARITY SO YOU KNOW, IT
WOULD BE GREAT, YOU KNOW,
GATHER CLOTHING AND OR CHILD'S
TOYS OR YOU KNOW, THESE THINGS
THAT THAT PEOPLE SOMETIMES WANT
TO TURN OVER MORE RAPIDLY AND
IT WOULD BE NICE TO NOT HAVE TO
GO VERY FAR BUT HAVE THAT IN
YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD OR HAVE OTHER
PEOPLE COME TO YOUR
NEIGHBORHOOD TO PERUSE THINGS
LIKE THAT.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I DO NOT ENDORSE FOR THE RECORD
THE WEALTHY COUNTY HQ PERMITTED
USED TABLE AS A MODEL FOR AN
HOUR.
I THINK WE WOULD BE MUCH MORE
CREATIVE AND ALLOW MANY THINGS
THAT THEY'VE PROHIBITED.
>> THAT'S WONDERFUL.
SO I THINK I WASN'T TRYING TO
HOLD YOU ACCOUNTABLE FOR THE
LIMITS OF THEIR IMAGINATION BUT
RATHER JUST PUT ON THE TABLE
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT I KNOW
WITH SUSTAINABILITY WORKING ON
THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY, THINGS
THAT THAT THIS SORT OF THING
COULD FOSTER SO BUT AGAIN IT'S
THE EXPENSE I MEAN IT'D BE
EASIER AS A HOME OCCUPATION AND
IT WOULD BE AS I MEAN OR AS A
SMALL COMMERCIAL USE THEN IT
WOULD BE AS A AS A AS A TINY
FIREPROOF ADA COMPLIANT WITH
BIKE HOOPS THAT ARE HAPPY FOR
COMMISSIONER WHICH IT JUST I
DON'T SEE THAT BEING COST
EFFECTIVE.
>> SO OK, I'M DONE WATERMILLS.
I'M GOING TO PICK UP JUST WHAT
I THOUGHT WHEN IT SAID LIKE NO
ART GALLERIES WAS WE DON'T WANT
THIS TO BE A DESTINATION IN THE
MIDDLE OF A NEIGHBORHOOD.
RIGHT.
LIKE IT SHOULD BE INSIDE.
THAT'S HOW I READ THAT LIST AS
LIKE THINGS THAT PEOPLE WANT
LIKE THAT'S NOT THE ONE OR TWO
PLACES IN THE CITY.
RIGHT.
THAT SUDDENLY YOU HAVE THE
ENTIRE CITY COMING TO YOUR
PLACE.
BUT IT'S THE THINGS THAT SERVES
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
THAT'S HOW I READ IT.
BUT MAYBE NOT.
AND I THINK THAT THAT'S WHEN WE
THINK ABOUT THE PLACES PEOPLE
ARE IMAGINING.
>> I THINK IT'S THE THINGS THAT
YOU DON'T HAVE TO GET IN YOUR
CAR TO GO AND GET A GALLON
OF MILK OR TO GO WITH ICE CREAM
OR A LOAF OF BREAD, THAT KIND
OF THING.
>> I THINK I WANT TO GIVE YOU
PROPS FOR HOW HOW MUCH THIS HAS
EVOLVED SINCE I LAST SAW IT.
>> I THINK DOING HAVING THE
ANALYSIS IN IT LOOKS LIKE YOU
HAD SOME HELP MAYBE ON
COMPARATIVE CITIES.
I THINK WAS REALLY HELPFUL IN
IDENTIFYING KIND OF WHERE WE
ARE OUT OF LINE AND IN FACT I
THINK YOU MADE THE POINT THAT
EVERY PLACE REGULATES A
DIFFERENT NUMBER OF THINGS.
YOU KNOW, THEY SOMETIMES IT'S
N.A WHICH MEANS IT COULD BE A
FREE FOR ALL BUT THERE'S OTHER
SOME OTHER RESTRICTION AND I
FEEL LIKE I MEAN EVEN IF YOU
COMPARE OUR HOME OCCUPATION TO
THE HQ LIKE WE ALLOW MORE SPACE
,WE ALLOW, YOU KNOW, LARGER
SQUARE FOOTAGE THAT'S IN
PARTICULAR.
RIGHT.
SO I THINK THAT I THINK THAT
THAT TABLE REALLY DID A GOOD
JOB KIND OF LAYING IT OUT.
>> I MEAN YOUR JOB JUST FOR
EVERYONE ELSE'S BENEFIT WASN'T
NECESSARILY IN YOUR
PRESENTATION.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS THAT LRC
DISCUSSED IS LIKE IF WE KNEW
WHY THIS WAS SO IMPORTANT THAT
WHAT THE USE WAS THAT OUR
CURRENT CODE DIDN'T ARTICULATE
IT WOULD BE HELP FOR FOR US.
AND SO I WOULD JUST IF THIS
GOES ALONG WITH THE
PRESENTATION TO COUNCIL, YOU
PUT THAT AT PAGE SEVEN OF THE
REPORT.
BUT I WOULD JUST ELEVATE THAT
LIKE I THINK THAT YOU'RE
LOOKING AT THE VIOLATION YOUR
EXPLANATION OF THE VIOLATIONS
WAS REALLY CLEAR ABOUT WHY YOU
WERE DOING BECAUSE LIKE IT'S
NOT TO SAY I DON'T KNOW THE WAY
THAT YOU TALKED ABOUT IT LIKE
PEOPLE WOULD BE VIOLATING
THINGS IF IF THEY WANTED TO BE
MORE INTENSE THAN WHAT WE'RE
ALLOWING.
THEY'RE NOT REALLY AND SO
THAT'S NOT A I THINK THAT THAT
WAS REAL CLEAR THE WAY YOU
DESCRIBED IT AND SO MAYBE I
DIDN'T PICK THAT UP FROM THE
REPORT QUITE AS MUCH SO LIKE
THAT GETS AT THAT.
BUT THOSE ARE THE ONLY TWO
THINGS THAT IN FORWARDING THIS
I WOULD MAYBE SUGGEST A SLIGHT
TWEAK OTHERWISE.
>> EXCELLENT JOB.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THIS
RESEARCH AND I WOULD SAY I MEAN
YOU THE IDEA THAT YOU SAID WE
CAN DO THIS, WE CAN DO ALL THIS
STUFF I WOULD I WOULD SEE HOW
THE TABLES LAND LIKE AND AGAIN
WHAT ARE THE CASES THAT WHAT
ARE WE TRYING TO ACHIEVE
ACCOMMODATE AND AND MIGHT IT BE
THIS SMALL COMMERCIAL LIKE THE
THIRD OPTION THAT YOU KIND
OF PRESENTED?
>> SURE.
YEAH.
THE ONE OF THE EXAMPLES I THINK
THAT CAME UP DURING SOME OF THE
COUNCIL DELIBERATIONS AND ALSO
THAT I'VE HEARD INFORMALLY IS
FOOD AND SOME LIKE CAFE COMES
UP.
>> I WOULD KNOW THERE'S A
REASON WHY I ADDED OTHER
COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES AT THE
END AND CALLED OUT FOOD OPTIONS
BECAUSE THERE ARE ONLY CERTAIN
LIKE SCENARIOS WHERE YOU CAN
HAVE FOOD THAT YOU PREPARE OUT
OF YOUR HOME WITHOUT THE COUNTY
HEALTH, WITHOUT WATCHING KIND
OF HELP BECOMING INVOLVED AND
THEY WOULD HAVE TO DO DIFFERENT
LEVELS OF CERTIFICATION OF WHAT
YOU'RE DOING BASED ON HOW MANY
PEOPLE YOU'RE INTENDING TO
SERVE OR THE VENUE.
>> AND AGAIN IT GOES BACK TO AN
IMPORTANT PURPOSE WHICH IS
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
>> SO MAKING SURE THAT IF
PEOPLE DO CONSUME FOOD IN AN
UNREGULATED KITCHEN THAT IT IS
WITHIN A CERTAIN CATEGORY THAT
IT'S SHELF STABLE, THAT IT
DIDN'T INVOLVE CERTAIN TYPES
OF FOOD THAT ARE KNOWN TO, YOU
KNOW, PROLIFERATE THE FOOD
BORNE ILLNESS.
>> SO SOME OF THE I THINK
INTEREST IN EXPANDING HOME
OCCUPATIONS AROUND FOOD ARE NOT
SOLELY WITHIN ZONING.
>> THEY'RE LARGER AND YOU KNOW,
BASED ON GOOD PUBLIC HEALTH
PRECEDENT, YOU'RE GOING TO GO
TO COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
IN THE ADAMS SO I ACTUALLY HAD
TO SELL MY CAFE UP ON MY SCREEN
HERE BECAUSE THAT WAS ONE THAT
WHEN I LOOK AT THESE I THINK
WOW, THIS SEEMS LIKE TOO MUCH
DETAIL FOR TO GET WHERE WE WANT
TO GET WHICH IS LOVELY LITTLE
PLACES IN OUR COMMUNITIES WHERE
WE CAN GROCERY SHOP OR HARDWARE
STORE THAT WAS ANOTHER ONE THAT
I WAS SURPRISED L.A. DOES NOT
WANT BUT I SUPPOSE FOR
FLAMMABILITY AND THINGS THAT
HARDWARE STORES HAVE I DON'T
KNOW.
BUT THEN I REMEMBERED SELMA
CAFE AND THAT WHAT IS YOU KNOW
SELMA CAFE WAS A HOME USE
BECAUSE IT
NEVER DID HAVE ANY
SEPARATE IT WAS A HOUSE AND IT
IT IS ALL IT HAD NO EMPLOYEES
BECAUSE EVERYBODY VOLUNTEERED
AND YOU KNOW, AT TIMES I WAS
JUST LOOKING THEY HAD UP TO 200
PEOPLE FOR A BREAKFAST AND THAT
PEOPLE WERE STARTING TO NOT BE
ABLE TO GET THEIR KIDS TO
SCHOOL OR GO TO WORK BECAUSE
THERE WERE TOO MANY CARS THERE
WAS JUST SO WE PROBABLY DO NEED
TO HAVE LIMITS ON SOME OF THESE
THINGS BECAUSE IF WE DON'T HAVE
LIMITS OF LIKE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
IF I LOOK ACROSS THE STREET I'M
NOT GOING TO SAY WHAT BUILDING
I LOOK ACROSS THE STREET THAT
BUT YOU KNOW, I THINK THEY ARE
CURRENTLY ZONED FOR LIKE 12
PEOPLE A DAY OR 24 PEOPLE A DAY
OR SOMETHING.
>> I MEAN I'M NOT GOING TO
COUNT LIKE OH YOU HAD TWENTY
EIGHT PEOPLE TODAY OR THIRTY
PEOPLE BUT IF THERE IS 400 THEN
IT IT GIVES US SOME ABILITY TO
MANAGE THOSE.
BUT I DO THINK ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT WE HAVE TO BE A
LITTLE CAREFUL ABOUT IS WE ALL
GO TO THE GOOD THINGS IN
NEIGHBORHOODS AND YOU KNOW I
WAS THINKING LIKE OH A FLORIST
OR THIS WELL IT CAN ALSO BE
LIKE NAZI PARAPHERNALIA OR LIKE
THERE IS NO REQUIREMENT THAT
THINGS IN NEIGHBORHOODS ARE
WHAT THE NEIGHBORS WANT TO SEE.
WE TALK ABOUT GOODS AND
SERVICES THAT WOULD SUPPORT A
NEIGHBORHOOD BUT THAT'S THAT'S
NOT A GUARANTEE.
THAT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT WE
ALWAYS GET.
SO HAVING SOME CHECKS AND
BALANCES IS GOOD BECAUSE YOU
KNOW, LIGHTS AND SMELLS AND
HUGE NUMBERS OF PEOPLE AND
THINGS.
IT IT DOES GIVE US SOME GUIDE
RAILS, GUARDRAILS, GUIDELINES,
BOTH OF THEM.
>> BUT IT DOES SEEM A LITTLE
YOU KNOW, THINGS OF LIKE
ENFORCEMENT.
OH WELL YOU USE TWENTY PERCENT
OF YOUR HOUSE OR SIX PEOPLE IT
SEEMS REALLY SORT OF OVERLY
RESTRICTIVE BUT I UNDERSTAND
WHY THEY EXIST TO ME.
I THINK ONE OF MY THINGS IS A
LITTLE LESS ABOUT OCCUPATION
AND MORE ABOUT IMPACTS TO
SURROUNDING, YOU KNOW,
NEIGHBORS OR SURROUNDING THAT
OF ALL THE THINGS THAT COULD BE
SURROUNDING THAT.
AND I THINK THAT TO ME IS A
LITTLE BIT MORE I CARE MORE
ABOUT THE IMPACTS THAN THE
ACTUAL OCCUPATION BECAUSE I DO
THINK THAT THERE ARE HUNDREDS
MINIMUM OF THESE AROUND THE
CITY RIGHT NOW AND MOST PEOPLE
DON'T KNOW THEY EXIST AS SOME
OF YOU KNOW, MY HUSBAND PLAYS
THE BAGPIPES AND HE DOES GIVE
LESSONS AT HOME AND YOU MIGHT
THINK, OH, YOU KNOW, MUSIC
LESSONS OR A VIOLIN.
THAT'S ONE THING.
MUSIC LESSONS FOR BAGPIPES IS
ANOTHER.
>> HE HAD TWIN STUDENTS SO
MUSIC LESSONS FOR TWO BAGPIPERS
AT A TIME, YOU KNOW, CHANGES.
YEAH, I ACTUALLY LIKE IT SO
IT'S GOT TO BUT YEAH BUT YOU
KNOW THERE THERE ARE THINGS
DEFINITELY THAT I THINK COULD
HAVE EFFECTS THAT THAT WE DON'T
REALIZE.
SO LONG WINDED WAY OF SAYING
THANK YOU FOR WRITING ALL THIS
UP.
THERE ARE REASONS TO HAVE SOME
OF THESE SLIGHTLY WEIRD LIKE
OCCUPATIONS OR I MEAN I THINK
OF SEASONALITY OF BUILDING
OF BUSINESSES AND STUFF YOU
CROCHET SANTO'S YOU'RE GOING TO
HAVE MORE PEOPLE IN DECEMBER
THAN YOU ARE AND JANUARY.
>> BUT I THINK THIS IS REALLY
GOOD BUT I THINK IT'S GOING TO
BE HARD.
>> IT'S IT'S WE WANT TO GO BACK
TO KIND OF WHEN THIS USED TO BE
THIS WAY BUT WE DON'T WANT
CERTAIN THINGS AND WE DON'T
WANT BRATS AND WE DON'T WANT
AND IT GETS COMPLICATED QUICKLY
BUT ANYWAY, THANK YOU FOR
WRITING IT UP BECAUSE I THINK
I'D LIKE TO LIVE AROUND MORE
STORES.
THANK YOU, MR. ADAMS.
YEAH, JUST TO DOVETAIL OFF
COMMISSIONER MILLS AND
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBY'S POINTS
,YOU KNOW I WASN'T I NEVER
VISITED SOME CAFE BUT I WAS
WHILE WE WERE TALKING I WAS
GOING THROUGH SOME OF THE KIND
OF A CHRONICLE DISCUSSION
OF SOME CAFE AND THERE'S ALSO A
WONDERFULLY SARCASTIC LETTER IN
OUR PACKET WRITTEN BY AN
ANONYMOUS WRITER WOULD
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT ANONYMOUS
WRITER AND THE TIME THAT WENT
INTO THAT LETTER.
BUT IT BRINGS UP SOME OF THE
PROBLEMS THAT WERE FLOWING OUT
OF SOME CAFE WHILE IT WAS OPEN
RIGHT NEXT TO AN ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL.
RIGHT.
LOTS LOTS OF TRAFFIC, LOTS
OF PEOPLE DRIVING AROUND
CREATING A HAZARD FOR KIDS WHO
WERE TRYING TO GET TO SCHOOL
AND PARENTS TRYING TO GET THEM
TO SCHOOL AND YOU KNOW, NOTING
HERE AGAIN I DON'T THINK IT'S
WITHIN OUR DISCRETION TO PERMIT
IF THAT'S THE CASE WE'RE TRYING
TO PERMIT I DON'T THINK WE CAN
LEGALLY DO IT BEYOND THE
PERMITTING.
IT PROBABLY BUMPS RIGHT INTO
NUISANCE LAW AND I THINK ONE
OF THE TAKEAWAYS FROM READING
YOUR REPORT WAS THAT I THINK
THE RULES THAT WE HAVE RELATIVE
TO OUR PEERS BASED ON ALL
AVAILABLE DATA ARE QUITE
PERMISSIVE AND PROBABLY RUN
RIGHT UP TO THE EDGE OF NOW I
WOULDN'T SAY NUISANCE LAW BUT
LIKE THEY'RE PRETTY DARN CLOSE
SO DRAFTING THEM CLOSER I THINK
RUNS INTO PROBLEMS AND I THINK
WE HAVE TO KNOW WHAT WE'RE
TRYING TO PERMIT BEFORE WE
WOULD BE ABLE TO DO THAT
INTELLIGENTLY.
AND I DON'T I DON'T ACTUALLY
KNOW WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO
PERMIT HERE.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I
REMEMBER READING BACK IN
SEPTEMBER WHEN US FIRST WAS
TEED UP WE WANT MORE POCKET
DAYCARE CENTERS.
I CAN ACKNOWLEDGE THAT BUT
THAT'S ALSO PERMITTED NOT AS A
HOME OCCUPATION BUT AS A
ANOTHER ACCESS FOR USE UP TO 12
STUDENTS.
SO FAMILY AND GROUP DAYCARE I
THINK DOESN'T REQUIRE A SPECIAL
EXEMPTION USE AND HAS ALREADY
PERMITTED.
>> SO I DON'T I DON'T EXACTLY
KNOW WHAT WE'RE TACKLING HERE
AND IT'S HARD TO EXPAND
INTELLIGENTLY WITHOUT KNOWING
THAT AND I DON'T KNOW THAT
THAT'S IMPLICIT I THINK IN YOUR
REPORT BUT I DON'T KNOW IF IT
CAN BE MADE EXPLICIT JUST THAT
WE HAVE TO ACTUALLY BE A LITTLE
MORE SURGICAL ABOUT WHAT WE'RE
TRYING TO DO TO AVOID CREATING
SELEMA CAFE PROBLEM INSTEAD
OF SOMETHING THAT'S A SUCCESS
STORY THAT IS SOMETHING THAT I
WOULD VALUE AND STAFF WOULD
VALUE A LITTLE MORE DIRECTION
BECAUSE I HAVE HEARD MAYBE NOT
DIRECTLY OR SOME OF IT WAS IN
THE COUNCIL RESOLUTION BUT IT
IS VERY SO AFFORDABLE RETAIL
PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED RETAIL UH
REDUCING VEHICLE TRIPS.
THERE ARE A LOT OF DIFFERENT
GOALS IF WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
AFFORDABLE RETAIL AQ MIGHT BE
AFFORDABLE IN THIRTY YEARS IF
IT'S BUILT NOW UM BUT PROBABLY
RIGHT NOT COMING ONLINE I JUST
LOOKING AT SOME OF THE NUMBERS
I HAVEN'T DONE IN A PERFORMER
ANYTHING REALLY EXTENSIVE BUT
I'M JUST LOOKING AT BACK OF THE
ENVELOPE THAT TO HAVE SMALL YOU
KNOW FORMAT STRUCTURE THAT
STANDALONE WITH FINISHES MIGHT
BE LOOKING A HALF MILLION
DOLLARS YOU'RE STARTING TO
YOU'RE STARTING TO LOOK AT WHAT
YOU KNOW.
SO THERE'S THERE'S WAYS THAT
YOU COULD THINK ABOUT BUILDING
POTENTIALLY INTO NEW
CONSTRUCTION ACTUALLY SO YOU
CAN FINANCE UP FOURPLEX WITH A
TRADITIONAL MORTGAGE AND I
BELIEVE UP TO TWENTY FIVE
PERCENT OF THAT IS ALLOWED TO
BE NONRESIDENTIAL FOR EXAMPLE.
>> SO COULD THE CITY, YOU KNOW,
LOOK INTO SOME TYPE OF , UM,
BETTER EDUCATION AROUND THAT?
HOW DO WE HOW DO WE SEE MORE
PRODUCTS THAT ARE COMING ONTO
THE MARKET ANYWAY THAT MIGHT
INCLUDE SOMETHING LIKE THAT
THAT'S BUILT UP FRONT DESIGNED
UP FRONT TO INCLUDE UM SMALL
FORMAT COMMERCIAL DO WE ARE
INTEGRATED COMMERCIAL AND WOULD
COULD THAT BE SOMETHING THAT
WOULD MAKE THE ACA SUCCESSFUL?
I THINK THIS CONVERSATION WAS
SIMILAR WHEN WE THE THIS
COMMUNITY IS CONSIDERING
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS AND
MANAGER WAS ASKED WELL HOW MANY
ARE WE GOING TO SEE?
AND TODAY I THINK WE'VE HAD
LESS THAN 60.
>> SO THEY'RE EXPENSIVE IS WHAT
WE HEAR A LOT.
>> I DON'T THINK ESPECIALLY
WITH THE ADDITIONAL STANDARDS
THAT THERE'S A REASON THAT
INTEGRATING RETAIL IN THIS WAY
WOULD BE LESS EXPENSIVE.
I THINK IT WOULD BE MORE SO AND
WE WOULD SEE LESS THAN WE SEE
OF THE THE ADA USE POTENTIALLY
I DON'T I DON'T TRULY KNOW BUT
THE DIRECTION AS TO IS TO HAVE
TO PRIMARILY REDUCE VEHICLE
TRIPS TO ADD AFFORDABLE
COMMERCIAL TO JUST IMPROVE THE
EYES ON THE STREET AND
LIVELINESS AND THE EXPERIENCE
OF OF NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> I THINK THAT THERE ARE OTHER
WAYS THAT WE COULD GET AT SOME
OF THOSE SCHOOLS THAT MAYBE
AREN'T COMMERCIAL POTENTIALLY
IN THE NEAR TERM.
SO I WOULD WELCOME THAT
DIRECTION AS WELL IN MORE
DETAIL.
>> GOT THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
RIGHT.
I'M JUST GOING TO PICK UP RIGHT
WHERE COMMISSIONER ADAMS LEFT
OFF.
I THINK IT WOULD BE
SUPERIMPORTANT FOR AT LEAST
THIS REPORT TO EXPLICITLY STATE
WHAT IT IS WE'RE TRYING TO
ACCOMPLISH.
I SORT OF LOST TRACK OF IT
BECAUSE OF ALL OF THE
REGULATIONS OF THE THINGS WE
DON'T WANT OR THE PROBLEMS THAT
WE MIGHT RUN INTO SUCH THAT I
WAS LIKE IF YOU COULD GO BACK
TO YOUR SECOND TO LAST SLIDE OR
YOUR LAST SLIDE WITH THE
BAKERY, I THINK IN A LOT
OF FOLKS MINDS WHEN THEY THINK
ABOUT NEIGHBORHOOD RETAIL AND
COMMERCIAL SPACES THIS IS WHAT
THEY HAVE OR JEFFERSON MARKET
MAY BE WHAT THEY HAVE IN MIND
BUT THIS IS NOT WHAT YOUR
ENTIRE REPORT IS ABOUT.
IT'S ABOUT A WHOLE DIFFERENT
STRUCTURE.
>> SO I THINK IN TERMS
OF FEEDBACK DIRECTLY TO ONE
GREAT REPORT THANKS FOR DOING
ALL THE WORK.
IT MAKES SENSE WE DON'T WANT TO
BLOCK THAT CAME THROUGH THE
HAVING SAID THAT, I THINK THERE
REALLY ARE POTENTIALLY TWO
PARTS HERE WHICH IS ONE THE
EDUCATIONAL ASPECT OF HERE ARE
THE THINGS THAT ARE ALREADY
PERMITTED SUCH THAT WE DON'T
HAVE TO CHANGE THE CODE TO TO
ACTUALLY DO THE EXCUSE.
IT'S GOING TO BE COST
PROHIBITIVE FOR MOST PEOPLE
BECAUSE IT STARTS IT REQUIRES
COMMERCIAL GRADE INSPECTIONS
PERMITTING LICENSING
AND
COMPLIANCE AND ALL OF THOSE
THINGS ARE EXPENSIVE.
SO THE IDEA THAT YOU'RE GOING
TO BE ABLE TO PUT A BARBERSHOP
IN YOUR GARAGE AND GET THAT
PERMIT IT IN THIS WAY USING
THIS TOOL, NOT THE HOME
OCCUPANCY ONE MAY NOT BE WHAT
YOU HAVE IMAGINED.
AND THEN THIRDLY, MAYBE THIS IS
WHAT YOU WANT THIS SMALL FOUR
FORMAT COMMERCIAL WHICH DOESN'T
EXIST UNIVERSALLY BEING
PERMITTED IN OUR RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS BUT MAYBE AS WE WORK
ON THE COMP PLAN AND BEGIN TO
ENVISION HOW WE BRING THESE
THINGS INTO THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AND THAT I THINK MIGHT BE A
GOOD FEEDBACK TO THE COUNCIL
TABLE TO ASK THE COUNCIL ABLE
TO CLARIFY EXACTLY WHAT THEY
WOULD LIKE TO SEE IN THE CITY
OTHERWISE I FEEL LIKE WE'RE
GOING TO BE CHASING UM I DON'T
KNOW WHAT WE'RE CHASING QUITE
HONESTLY AND BECAUSE OF THAT I
THINK IT'S GOING TO SPEND A LOT
OF STAFF TIME WHEN THERE ARE SO
MANY THINGS I WANT US TO WORK
ON THAT DON'T INCLUDE THIS.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
>> THOUGHTS?
OH, I'M SORRY MR. ABRAMS.
APOLOGIES.
DON'T APOLOGIZE.
YOU CAN ONLY LOOK ONE DIRECTION
AT A TIME.
UM, THANK YOU.
I HAD A SIMILAR I JUST FOLLOW
UP ON THAT.
I HAVE A SIMILAR FEELING AND I
MY SENSE IS THAT THE REASON WE
DON'T HAVE CLARITY ABOUT THE
GOAL HERE IS BECAUSE THIS
DIDN'T ORIGINATE WITH US THAT
ORIGINATED WITH ANOTHER BODY
AND WE WERE DIRECTED TO DO IT.
SO I THINK IT MAKES SENSE TO ME
THAT WE DON'T HAVE CLARITY ON
THAT AND MAYBE REQUESTING MORE
CLARITY AND DIRECTION.
WHAT ALSO MAKES SENSE I ALSO
WAS NOTICING SO BIG CITY, SMALL
WORLD AND WASHINGTON AREA ARE
ZONED COMMERCIAL LIKE THAT'S
THAT'S THE SILVER BULLET THERE.
>> BUT I'M WONDERING HOW
JEFFERSON MARKET IS ABLE TO
OPERATE BECAUSE THAT IS NOT
ZONED COMMERCIAL.
I'VE GOT A LITTLE BIT
OF HISTORY SORRY.
>> OK, I'M SORRY.
TAKE IT AWAY.
I THINK I WOULD JUMP IN A
LITTLE BIT BECAUSE IN MY TWENTY
FOUR PLUS YEARS YES I DEALT
WITH THAT PERIODICALLY AS FAR
AS EVEN RIGHT WHEN I STARTED IT
WAS USED AS COMMERCIAL AND IT'S
BEEN CONTINUALLY USED
COMMERCIAL AS FAR BACK AS IS
WE'VE GOT THE RECORDS BUT
YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY CORRECT IT'S
OWNED OUR TWO WAY SO WE HAD
SOME ISSUES WHEN THERE WAS YOU
KNOW YOU'RE ONLY ALLOWED TO
VACATE OR HAVE THAT BUILDING
VACANT FOR SO LONG BEFORE YOU
USE THAT LOSE THAT
NONCONFORMING USE STAT AND WE
DO NOT OUR ZIP CODE DOES NOT
ALLOW USE VARIANCES.
SO WE'VE HAD THAT ISSUE COME UP
BEFORE AND THEY'VE ALWAYS MET
THAT DEADLINE.
SO THAT IS THE REASON IS THAT
IT HAS BEEN CONTINUALLY USED
BUT IT'S A IT'S A IT IS AN
ISSUE AND I'M GLAD YOU BROUGHT
THAT UP BECAUSE IF THAT CEASES
FOR SIX MONTHS OR SO FOR
WHATEVER REASON THAT USED HAS
GONE SO RIGHT AGAIN THERE'S
ANOTHER QUESTION HERE WHICH
WOULD BE THE YEAH.
A DIFFERENT A DIFFERENT ZONING
FLEXIBILITY THAT WOULD ALLOW
SMALL FORMAT COMMERCIAL AND
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR USE
VARIANCES.
I'M NOT SAYING WE WANT TO DO
THAT PRETTY LIKE THERE ARE
OTHER LEVERS TO PULL I GUESS IS
WHAT I'M WONDERING BEYOND ACRES
WHICH FEEL LIKE PERHAPS TO TOO
COST PROHIBITIVE TO PURSUE THE
REASON WHY?
>> WELL ONE BECAUSE IT WASN'T
EXPLICITLY DIRECTED IN THE
COUNCIL RESOLUTION DIDN'T LOOK
AT SMALL FORMAT COMMERCIAL AS A
PRIMARY USE BECAUSE IT SPOKE TO
ACRES AND OCCUPATIONS WHICH ARE
BOTH ACCESSIBLE USES BUT ALSO
BECAUSE THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
I'LL SAY IT AGAIN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS ONGOING
AND THIS IS A THIS ISN'T LIKE A
BYLINE IN IN THE DISCUSSION
OF OUR POTENTIAL FUTURE ZONES
INTEGRATED NONRESIDENTIAL USES
BY RIGHT AND DISCUSSING WHAT
THE PARAMETERS OF THOSE IS
SOMETHING HAPPENING RIGHT NOW.
>> IT WAS NOTED THAT THE
STEERING COMMITTEE FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OF THE NEXT
ONE TAKES PLACE TOMORROW.
THE NEXT SUBCOMMITTEE FOR THE
PLANNING COMMISSION RELATED TO
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS NEXT
WEEK TUESDAY.
>> IF THESE ARE UNANSWERED
QUESTIONS OR IT'S UNCLEAR THE
DIRECTION THAT THE DRAFT IS
GOING, I WOULD ENCOURAGE
BRINGING IT UP IN THOSE FORUMS
BECAUSE THE IT ISN'T REALLY
USEFUL FOR THE REDUNDANCE STAFF
EFFORT WHEN THIS IS A HUGE
UNDERTAKING OF THE DEPARTMENT
AND THE COMMUNITY WITH VERY
SEASONED OUTSIDE CONSULTANTS
WHO ARE HELPING US DO DETAILED
ANALYSIS OF THAT SPECIFIC THING
.
>> SO I AM TRYING MY BEST TO
MENTION THIS BUT NOT ASSUME
THAT IT IS THE GOAL OF THE
RESOLUTION BECAUSE I WASN'T
TOLD THAT BUT ALSO THAT I DO
THINK IT'S IMPORTANT AND THE
GOOD NEWS IS THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT IT IN DETAIL.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS THOUGHTS
I'LL ADD JUST TO SENSE OF HOW I
READ THIS PARTICULAR THING
WOULD BE THAT THE HOME
OCCUPATION IS USE LOOKING TO
ENCOURAGE KIND EXPERIMENTAL AND
OR KIND OF LIKE PROOF
OF CONCEPT OF RETAIL BEFORE IT
GOES FULLY COMMERCIAL.
THAT'S THE WAY THAT I READ IT.
I ALSO DID WANT TO LOOK AT IT
FROM THE STANDPOINT OF AN
ACTUAL AN ACTUAL BUILT
ENVIRONMENT BEING BUILT RIGHT.
IT LOOKS LIKE THIS SQUARE
THAT'S BUILT NEXT TO A HOUSE
BUT I JUST THOUGHT ABOUT OK,
WELL THEY MADE THE INVESTMENT
AND IT'S NOT WORKING OUT MY
BIGGEST FEAR WOULD BE WHAT
HAPPENS IF I THINK WAS FAKE IT
RIGHT AND DOES THAT OWNER LOOK
TO RETALIATE AND SO WHAT DOES
THAT BUILT ENVIRONMENT LOOK
LIKE?
AND THAT'S KIND OF LIKE MY HEAD
GOES OFF LIKE SCENARIO PLANNING
FOR USE TO ME LIKE THE
EXPANSION LIKE HOME OCCUPATION
MAKES A LOT OF SENSE IN TERMS
OF IMPROVING ACCESSIBILITY TO
DIFFERENT TYPES OF AMENITIES.
OF COURSE MAKING SURE THAT WE
PRESERVE AND PROMOTE HEALTH,
SAFETY, GENERAL WELFARE OF THE
COMMUNITIES I KNOW OBVIOUSLY
LIMIT NUISANCE THAT EMANATES
BEYOND PROPERTY LINES, THINGS
OF THAT NATURE THE BUT MY
THINKING WAS THAT PERHAPS MY
READING OF THIS WAS LET'S TRY
TO CREATE PATHWAYS FOR EXAMPLE
A SMALL BAKER.
I'M JUST GOING TO USE THAT
BECAUSE I THINK THE PICTURE IS
UP RIGHT NOW.
THEY GO TO A COMMERCIAL RETAIL
LANDLORD.
THEY'RE GOING TO SAY I NEED A
FIVE YEAR LEASE AND A PERSONAL
GUARANTEE.
RIGHT.
THERE'S GOING TO BE CERTAIN
BARRIERS TO ENTRY WHEN YOU ARE
LOOKING TO ROLET OR YOU'RE
LOOKING TO LEASE A YOU KNOW, A
SPACE THAT HAS COMMERCIAL OVEN
FOR EXAMPLE OR YOU MIGHT BE
REQUIRED TO PUT ONE END RIGHT
FOR A LANDLORD AND HAVE TO
RESTORE IT AFTER THE AFTER THE
LEASE TERM.
SO I THINK TO ME HOME
OCCUPATIONS IT'S LIKE THERE'S A
FINE LINE BETWEEN WHAT'S
COMMERCIAL AND LIKE PROOF
OF CONCEPT LIKE HAVING AN
EXPERIMENT AND I THINK ANYTHING
THAT WE DO TO REDUCE BARRIERS
ENTRY IS A GOOD THING FOR
PEOPLE THAT ARE LOOKING TO
ENTREPRENEURS THAT ARE LOOKING
TO ENCOURAGE THAT KIND
OF EXPERIMENTATION.
BUT I DO AGREE THAT I HAVE SOME
GENERAL CONCERNS OF THIS
SECONDARY STRUCTURE OF YOU
KNOW, MADE THE INVESTMENT BUT
IT'S JUST IT'S NOT WORKING OUT
WHAT HAPPENS THEN, RIGHT?
I MEAN CAN I LEASE IT OUT AS A
ANOTHER BEDROOM OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT WHEN IT'S NOT
DESIGNED FOR SUCH?
AND SO I THINK THAT KIND
OF CONSIDERATION SHOULD BE HAD
OF LIKE THE CONTINUITY AND THE
ADAPTIVE REUSE AFTER THAT
INITIAL KIND OF DEVELOPMENT.
BUT AGAIN, THAT BEING SAID, THE
ENCOURAGEMENT OF FIFTEEN
NEIGHBORHOODS IS CONCEPT
OF AGAIN THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
AND HAVING ACCESSIBILITY IS IS
ALWAYS KIND OF AN IMPORTANT
THING.
SO I DO THINK THIS IS A
WORTHWHILE TOPIC TO BE
CONSIDERING.
>> I REALLY APPRECIATE THE
THOROUGHNESS OF THE REPORT
MOSTLY MY THOUGHT PROCESS WAS
ON THAT OF WHAT DO YOU DO WHEN
YOU'RE A TENANT IT JUST ON THE
AQ COMPONENT HOME OCCUPATION TO
ME AGAIN ENCOURAGING AND
REDUCING BARRIERS TO ENTRY.
KIND OF AN IMPORTANT POINT FOR
ME ASIDE FROM THAT ANY OTHER
THOUGHTS PARTICULARLY ON THIS
REPORT IF NOT I THINK BLIX I
BELIEVE THAT THE MOTION THAT IS
ON THE TABLE RIGHT NOW IS THAT
WE DO APPROVE THE ATASH REPORT
AND FORWARDED ON TO COUNCIL FOR
THEIR CONSIDERATION OF FURTHER
DIRECTION OF ACTIVITIES.
>> SO WITH THAT, DO WE NEED A
ROLL CALL?
>> OUR VOICE VOTE LET ME ASK IT
COULD BE A VOICE VOTE.
OK, I'M GOING TO DO IT DOES A
CALL IF YOU LIKE A ROLL-CALL
VOTE.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS YES.
WHETHER IT BE YES.
>> MILLS YES.
BUSH YES.
>> ABRAMS YES.
>> HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
WHORISH YES WE AND YES CHRIS,
THANK YOU.
I REALLY APPRECIATE
THOROUGHNESS THE DEPARTMENT OK
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
AGENDA NUMBER ONE.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
COUNCILMAN BRITISH PUBLIC
COMMENT THIS IS A SECOND
OPPORTUNITY FOR INDIVIDUALS TO
SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES ON
ANY ISSUE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM
THOSE PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON THE
PHONE OR USE THE PHRASE HANAFI
AND ZOOME FOR PHONE ACCESS.
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TWO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
ON ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK AND
PLEASE ENSURE THAT YOU'RE IN A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISES FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
>> PLEASE STATE HER NAME AND
ADDRESS PRIOR THAT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS ZIR
ANYONE PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THE TIME EXTRA
CREDIT OR FOR THE FURTHER NORTH
CLASS?
OH YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH
YEAH YEAH.
>> WELL BOB
SPEAKERS DO WE HAVE
ANY REMOTE CALLERS?
THERE IS ONE REMOTE PHONE
NUMBER ANY IN FIVE, THREE FOUR
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
AT THE
TOP, BARBARA CALLING FROM ONE
TO ZERO TO FAVORITE STREET IN
ANN ARBOR.
>> EXCELLENT REPORT.
>> VERY INTERESTING DISCUSSION.
THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH.
I THINK TERMINOLOGY IS AN ISSUE
HERE AND WHAT
PEOPLE'S
EXPECTATIONS ARE, WHETHER IT BE
A COUNCIL OR THE PUBLIC REALLY
DEPENDS ON THEIR AND THEIR OWN
INTERPRETATION OF THE
TERMINOLOGY AND THE PHRASES.
>> SO WE'VE RUN INTO THIS IS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
WHAT IS AFFORDABLE TO ONE
PERSON IN THEIR OPINION THAT
PERCEPTION IS VERY DIFFERENT
THAN OTHER PEOPLE.
THERE'S SOME HIGH DEFINITION IN
TERMS OF 60 PERCENT AND I THINK
LIKE THAT BUT THE GENERAL
PUBLIC OFTEN DOESN'T KNOW WE'LL
TAKE DEFINITION.
>> SO AGAIN, A DEFINITION
OF THE TERMINOLOGY HERE THAT WE
CAN ALL USE WOULD BE HELPFUL IN
AND COMMUNICATING WITH COUNCIL
WITH THE PUBLIC.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, MR. STALBERG.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS ON
THE LINE?
OK, TWO MORE SECONDS.
>> OK, WE'LL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO AGENDA
NUMBER 12 COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS.
ARE THERE ANY SEEING NONE.
WE'RE AT THE FINAL ITEM WHICH
IS ADJOURNMENT MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS AND SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER WAITZ.
>> ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY AY
WE ARE ADJOURNED.
THANK YOU